# Godbound

## Book exported to md below

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml}

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer000 .Single-Column}
[Table of Contents]{.CharOverride-1}

[New Gods
Awaken](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor000)

[Character
Creation](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor002)

[The Rules of the
Game](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor013)

[Divine
Powers](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor021)

[A Gazetteer of
Arcem](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor074)

[Running the
World](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor120)

[Foes of
Heaven](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor141)

[Treasures Beyond
Price](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor177)

[Secrets of
Arcem](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor185)

[Topic Index]()

[Gift
Index](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor215)
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer001 .Single-Column}
Written by Kevin Crawford

Cover by Jeff Brown

Cartography by Maxime Plasse

Character sheet by Craig Judd

Art by Jeff Brown, Christof Grobelski, Aaron Lee, Joyce Maureira, and
Tan Ho Sim

Copyright 2016, Sine Nomine Publishing
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer002 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor000}New
Gods Awaken

Heaven has fallen. The world is broken. The Throne is empty.

More than a thousand years ago the Former Empires ruled in glory.
Wonders beyond imagining littered the nations of that ancient age, even
the least of men and women living with the luxury of a Bright Republic
oligarch. Hunger, sickness, ignorance, pain... all the blights to which
mortal bodies are heir were banished by the marvels of the Former
Empires.

The agent of this mercy was the might of theurgy, the terrible High
Magic uncovered by restless scholars of the old realms. With the secrets
of theurgy at their disposal, sages were able to lay impious hands on
the very levers of creation, manipulating cosmic powers far beyond the
birthright of mortal humanity. The deep powers of the Creator were at
their disposal at last, ready to glorify their kindred and exalt their
causes.

And they had many causes. Bereft of material want, the Former Empires
found other reasons to struggle. It was no longer enough to have a full
belly and healthy children. The newfound might of theurgy would help
them bring righteousness to neighboring realms that disputed the wisdom
of their ways or the justice of their laws. Evil and corruption would be
purged at last, and all the grieving sorrow of their misguided or
malevolent neighbors would be healed by the light of their glorious
truth.

Of course, every one of the Former Empires had its own truth to uphold.
Their people wanted for nothing, but their material wealth simply left
them to crave more intangible things. It was not enough that a neighbor
was willing to keep the peace; the neighbor had to
[agree]{.CharOverride-2} with them, had to submit to their laws and
their ideals. And if this submission made their former neighbors into
new subjects of their rulers, was it not a fair reward for a valiant
pursuit of justice?

No one knows how long the wars tore open the nations of the old world.
Some say they lasted centuries, others think it was only a few years
before the ancient theurges sought to end matters. There would be no
more fighting. The theurges would use their arts to ascend to Heaven,
and there put their causes before the One. God alone would determine the
true way that humanity was to live.

The angels fought desperately to keep back the invading theurges, but
they were too few to withstand the human sorceries. A hundred-odd armies
marched at the theurges\' sides, great engines and terrible war-beasts
grinding the celestial legions before them. Countless mortals perished,
but the angels were driven back at last, forced to flee from Heaven and
seek refuge in the fires of Hell below.

The triumphant theurges approached the holy heart of Heaven, the Throne
of God where the creator of all would answer at last. And yet when the
great doors were opened, when the thousand Names were spoken, when the
burning wings of angels no longer veiled the sanctum, the Throne stood
empty before them. God was not there.

The theurges scattered in confusion and wrath. Some were bitter, and
swore that the Creator was never there at all, and that the One was
merely a trick of angels. Others wept in terror, crying out that their
impiety had led to God\'s abandonment of them. Most, however, saw not an
emptiness, but a possibility. If God was no longer on the Throne, was
there not room for another?

The Last War below did not cease, but it changed. Throughout the Former
Empires, theurges and theotechnicians labored to forge new gods, Made
Gods, fabricating them from shards of plundered celestial engines and
stolen artifacts from the house of God. Unimaginable power was poured
into these hollow shells. Holy exemplars of their nations\' ideals were
enlisted to embody this force or fuel the golem-gods they created, and
in time these Made Gods strode forth.

The destruction they wrought was incalculable. God after god stormed the
halls of Heaven, searching for more power in its crumbling engines and
broken wonders. They fought each other on earth, churning up nations,
and battled each other in Heaven\'s gardens, breaking loose shards of
the celestial city. As they scavenged the celestial engines, the world
began to crack beneath them, the Former Empires splintering into
scattered realms that drifted away from each other in the darkness of
Uncreated Night. A few reckless Made Gods even attempted to seize the
Throne itself, but their sacrilege left only their bones. They were not
prepared to usurp the place of God.

There was no last battle. There was no ultimate struggle that marked the
end of the Last War. There was only a slow winding-down over centuries
as the Made Gods died. Some perished from the perils of Heaven, slain by
vengeful angels or destroyed by powers they did not understand. Others
were killed in battle, slaughtered by rival Made Gods or undone by the
energies of mighty mortal weapons. A few simply became lost, trapped or
hidden away in a shard of broken Heaven, far away from their home and
their people. The Made Gods are gone.

Now there are only the heritor nations, the crumbled fragments of the
Former Empires eking out a meager existence in the far-scattered realms.
The wonders of the former age no longer function, and the theurgy that
once shook Heaven is now a brittle, capricious art wounded by the very
destruction it caused. Kings and commoners alike must live in a world
that no longer welcomes them.

Every year, things grow a little harder. The celestial engines among the
shards of Heaven are often broken and always ill-kept, now that the
angels have fled. Seasons grow uncertain and nature grows whimsical or
malicious. Sickness comes at strange times and monsters are birthed in
hidden places. Sometimes the skin of the realm puckers and splits, a
Night Road erupting into the realm from some fathomless depth of
Uncreated Night. Creation unwinds slowly, but without halt.

But there is a new thing in the realms. Ordinary men and women are being
touched by ancient power. The lost Words of Creation are igniting within
the flesh of common humans, imbuing them in a stroke with the power that
once required a Made God\'s shell to contain. It started only a few
short years ago, but these \"Godbound\" are said to be the blessed by
the descending fire of the fallen Made Gods. Their holy workings and
celestial bindings are falling free from their dead husks, and
descending to the earth to catch on mortal souls.

Heretics of the Unitary Church whisper that it was a plan of God that it
should be so, that these Godbound will redeem the sins of their
ancestors and restore the world that was broken. Others say that they
are merely cursed ones, damned to relive the terrible Last War that
destroyed the Made Gods before them. Yet in the present hour they are
only men and women who have been given something more.

You are Godbound. You have inherited the holy fire. Whatever your past
life, however meager a soul you may have been, the light of the Words
has found you. Your world is slowly fading and the beasts of its
twilight hour are rising up from the dust. Your people cannot hope to
stand against them.

Will you be their savior, or will you be their epitaph?
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer003 .Text-Frame}
A World of Glory and Blood

[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is a game of demigod heroes facing the
sorrows of a broken world. You and your Godbound companions work
together to achieve your shared ambitions, whether those ambitions are
for seas of shining golden coins or dreams of a world redeemed from its
slow decay. There are countless troubles and terrors in the scattered
realms of the former world, but you and your allies have the power to
defy them all.

What Do You Do in Godbound?

A Godbound hero faces the world in the company of their
[pantheon]{.CharOverride-3}, a group of fellow divinities bound by
chance or fate to be together. You may not always like your
pantheon-mates, but together they provide strength and a breadth of
power that no single demigod can match. They will be your allies against
the myriad dangers of the fallen world.

Godbound drive back the creatures of night. They defeat monsters and
renegade gods that no mortal could hope to overcome. They dare the
terrible Night Roads to reach the broken shards of Heaven or the
seething flames of Hell, there to mend the damaged engines that support
their home realm or plunder its riches out from under the shadow of
angelic wings.

Godbound are defenders of their people. However humble the village or
hard-pressed the nation, a single Godbound hero can spell the difference
between glorious prosperity and utter destruction. Many Godbound have
innate powers that can make the most wretched mud-hut hamlet into a
thriving hub of peace and prosperity, if only they and their allies can
hold back the forces that would want to devour such a tempting morsel.

Godbound forge agreements between warring nations or spark crusades of
righteousness against dark powers. They speak with the fire and force of
divine will, and mortal warlords and emperors fear their anger. Even
when a Godbound\'s own gifts cannot solve the problem at the heart of a
conflict, their strength can force a resolution.

Godbound build wonders. The decaying celestial engines have spoiled many
old marvels, robbing them of the reliable natural law they required to
function. Godbound can renew these old miracles, building incredible
edifices, magnificent vehicles, or wondrous weapons of a former age. A
Godbound of the Word of Artifice can provide crackling electrical
service, hot running water, and spirit-driven brass labor automata to
his humble farming village, if only given enough time and divine
Dominion.

Godbound rule nations. When pacts and promises are not enough, when the
people cry out for a glorious divine ruler to protect and sustain them,
the Godbound can rise to the call. Perhaps these new demi-deities are
not always so wise as they may hope, and perhaps not all are given to
noble use of their powers, but a god-emperor can do much without fear of
reproach. How many can stand aside when a suffering people beg them for
their leadership?

Ultimately, your Godbound hero does [whatever you
want]{.CharOverride-2}. Even as novice Godbound, even as a hero new to
your powers, you can stand against the mightiest mortal heroes of your
realm. You can work miracles by your raw will, or mold the natural laws
around you in obedience to your divine Words. There is no greater
authority to command you. There is no God on the Throne to tell you what
is right and what is wrong. There is only your will, and your choice,
and the world you wish to make. Together with your allies you will shape
a realm fit to your desires, or you will be destroyed by the unnumbered
legions that rise up to thwart your holy will.

How Does Godbound Play?

[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is based on an \"Old School Renaissance\"
rules chassis strongly inspired by the classic gaming books of Gary
Gygax, Dave Arneson, Tom Moldvay and Zeb Cook. There are a lot of
contemporary systems in currency, and many of these systems are great
fun at the table, but the classic OSR framework is one understood and
readily playable for millions of players worldwide.

This is crucial, because [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is a game meant to
be [played]{.CharOverride-2}. [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} supports a
\"sandbox gaming\" style of campaign from the very start. In a sandbox
game, the Game Master, or \"GM\" sets up an interesting world for the
player characters or \"PCs\" to encounter, and then lets them encounter
it in whatever way they choose. The book you\'re holding provides the
example realm of Arcem to serve as a template, but your GM can easily
choose to brew up their own with the guidelines and tools in this book,
or pluck a favorite fictional setting from other media to use for your
game.

As a Godbound hero, your job is to dig into that world and start working
your will on it. There will be threats aimed at you, it\'s true.
Especially as you start interfering with the plans of powerful entities
and thwarting the will of other demi-divine powers, you\'ll find them
striking back with all the resources at their command. But at the
game\'s heart, it\'s a game about your hero and the changes they choose
to impress on the world. For good or ill, there is no judgment and there
is no judge. There is only you, your pantheon-allies, and the dreams you
have for your own world.

Great works are not accomplished lightly, of course. To achieve mighty
ends, you\'ll need to delve into forgotten ruins to accumulate the
resources and celestial artifacts you need to enact major changes in the
world. You\'ll need to fight back parasite gods, theurgic Eldritch,
Uncreated monstrosities, mortal legions, and other nameless enemies that
seek to thwart your ambitions. You\'ll need to find ways to solve
problems with something less than a blaze of divine fury, because a more
direct solution would smash the very structure you\'re trying to
preserve. To be a god is a difficult thing.

As your hero grows in experience and familiarity with their powers, they
will open new vistas. A novice Godbound still has cause to be wary
around mobs of angry mortals, but a veteran wielder of the Words can
sweep away armies with their wrath. More importantly, you\'ll be able to
dare the perils of fallen Heaven and risk raids on the flames of Hell,
dueling fallen angels to snatch back the souls of the unjustly condemned
or claim celestial salvage from the broken engines of long-vanished
realms. Perhaps you will even summon up enough power to forge your own
Paradise, a refuge-realm where the souls of your faithful can find
safety against the constant downward draw of Hell.

The world can be as you would make it, if you are willing to pay the
price. Not all Godbound will want to leave such a mark on creation, of
course. Some simply have no desire to mold the world in their image,
loving only a life of excitement, adventure, and fearsome foes worthy of
their divine fists. Others have doubts about their own righteousness,
and are reluctant to impress their will on a world that might not
welcome their idea of perfection.

You\'ll make these choices in the course of your adventures. With a GM
to provide the backdrop and challenges for your heroes, and the players
to provide the drive of ambition and grand plans, the game will provide
you all with an excellent evening\'s fun.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer004 .Text-Frame}
Using This Book

To play [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} you\'ll need someone willing to be
the GM and two to four other people who want to play Godbound heroes.
The game can work well with more players, but the GM will have to be
ready for the group to take on substantially bigger challenges with
their wider array of powers and available might. A single Godbound hero
and GM can also work for a session, provided both take care not to get
into more trouble than a single demigod can handle.

You\'ll need a set of special gaming dice, preferably one for each
person at the table. Role-playing game dice come as oddly-shaped dice;
for [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}, you\'ll need one 20-sided die, one
12-sided die, two 10-sided dice, one 8-sided die, four 6-sided dice, and
one 4-sided die. You can get by with just one of each, but you may want
more of a type if your powers use them a lot. If you\'ve got a
smartphone, you can also download apps that provide digital dice.

At many places in the book, you\'ll see notations like \"2d10+2\". This
simply means \"Roll two 10-sided dice, add them together, and add two to
the sum\". If you see \"d100\", that just means to roll two 10-sided
dice and read them as a two-digit number, counting \"00\" as 100.

You\'ll need pencils and notebook paper for recording details and taking
notes. You can copy or print the character sheets from this book, and
you\'ll need one for every player. It\'s often useful for PCs to print
out the pages that describe their divine Words, so as to more easily
track their available powers.

You\'ll want a supply of tokens for keeping track of Effort committed by
your heroes. A stack of pennies works if you have them to hand, as do
poker chips, beads, or anything else that can be plopped down on a sheet
of paper to track your power\'s current disposition.

If You\'re Reading This as a PDF File

If you\'re reading this book as a PDF, there are some tricks you can do
to change its appearance, either to make it easier to print out on a
home printer or to make it better suit your reading preferences.

If you\'re reading the file on Adobe Acrobat Reader, you should find a
\"Layers\" tab to the left. You can click on that to activate or
deactivate display layers on this PDF. By turning off \"Corner Pieces\",
you can eliminate the decorations at the corners of the pages. Turning
off \"Art\" and \"Background Paper\" will eliminate the page backgrounds
and any illustrations in the book, making it more economical to print it
out on a home printer.

The \"Maps\" layer controls the maps in the Gazetteer section of the
book. They\'re put on a separate layer, as you might not want most of
the art in the book when printing it out, but still have need of the map
illustrations.

Some PDF readers don\'t recognize layers, or don\'t allow you to
manually control them. This seems to show up particularly often on
tablet readers. If you want to sidestep this, load the PDF up in Adobe
Acrobat Reader, deactivate the layers you want removed, and then
\"Print\" the file to a new PDF. The resulting PDF will have only the
layers you want to keep, and should show up properly on your PDF reader
of choice.

Wherever you got this file, you should also have found a set of .mobi
and .epub file versions that are formatted as plain single-column text.
While not as aesthetically pleasing as the PDF file, these files can be
much friendlier to an e-reader or to reader software often used by the
vision-impaired.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer005 .Single-Column}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor001}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor002}Character
Creation

Forging a Hero of the Age
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer006 .Text-Frame}
The first step towards greatness is to create your Godbound hero. This
section will explain the rules for fashioning your newly-forged demigod
and point out some matters to keep in mind when developing your
character. Your hero is a budding demigod and possessed of incredible
powers, but even they need to work well with the others in their
pantheon if they\'re to prosper in this perilous world.

When building your hero, you\'ll want to talk to the GM and your fellow
players to make sure everyone\'s on the same page about the game. The GM
can provide details of the campaign setting that you\'ll be using,
either the example realm of Arcem provided in this book, a homebrew
world of their own devising, or an existing fantastic setting plucked
from the wider gaming world. These details will help you round out the
background of your hero and choose the goals that fit your idea of fun.

At the same time, you\'ll want to work with your fellow players to make
a hero that fits in well with the rest of the player characters. While
it\'s possible to play a one-on-one campaign of
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} with just a single player and a GM, games
that involve a full pantheon need to have demigods that at least
tolerate each other. Their goals might not be in perfect alignment and
their personal talents and niches might not be free of overlap, but the
heroes need a reason to be willing to work with one another.

The pantheon forms much of that reason. While Godbound have only started
manifesting within the past few years in most realms, it\'s not uncommon
for small groups of them to find themselves thrown together by chance or
destiny. These cells of demi-divinities are drawn together by the powers
they have and the opportunities that present themselves to a unified
pantheon, as together they can work wonders that any single Godbound
would be sorely taxed to achieve. You and your fellow players are part
of the same pantheon, and you should be able to work together with no
more than a mutually-enjoyable degree of internal tension in the group.

One thing to be careful about when making your hero is the risk of
divine apathy. It\'s crucial that your hero should have goals and
ambitions in the world, whether those goals are a simple hunger for
fabulous mortal luxuries, a higher ambition to redeem their conquered
homeland, or a dream of ending a centuries-old war that\'s torn their
nation. Your hero is a demigod, and almost any feat is something
they\'re capable of achieving with enough time, effort, and allied aid.
It\'s fine to make a hero who\'s just all-around awesome, but that
awesomeness needs to have a direction.

This is crucial because most [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} campaigns are
[sandbox]{.CharOverride-2} campaigns. The GM has built a setting with a
great many conflicts, villains, heroes, sympathetic bystanders,
long-standing afflictions, and fabulous rewards to be seized. They\'ve
brewed up a starting session to thrust the pantheon into a crisis
situation to help you all warm up to the game and the setting. Beyond
that, however, the game\'s progress is [your]{.CharOverride-2}
responsibility. Your goals and your choices are going to be the things
driving the game, and while the world will doubtless react to your
decisions and have its own share of ambitious actors, the heart of the
game is about the new world your hero is making.

Every part of a realm is subject to a Godbound hero\'s influence and
decisions. It may not be [easy]{.CharOverride-2} to change something. It
may take heroic exertions and terrible sacrifices to accumulate the
power and resources necessary to enact some tremendous change. But even
so, your hero and their comrades are the judges of last resort. There is
no ultimate power above you to decree how the world must be made. There
is no pantheon of greater divinities to punish you for a refusal to
accept the world as it is.

This can make for its own kind of conflict. Your heroes will have enough
to keep them busy in fighting rival Godbound, casting down parasite
gods, struggling with human monarchs, and trying to maintain their
integrity in the face of so many choices and temptations. Do they really
want to add custodianship of the world to their duties? Are their ideas
for the world really an improvement over what chance and mortal choice
has wrought?

There will be disagreements about that, no doubt, even within your own
pantheon. Different Godbound will have different ideas about what kind
of world awaits their coming, and these disputes will have to be settled
one way or another. Yet even after the work is done, even after the
malevolent angels are banished and the seasons put aright and the
starving fed from fields of divine abundance, are all things truly as
they should be? The world was shattered once by the warring dreams of
those who would be God. Will it be broken again?

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor003}Rolling
Attributes

To begin creating your PC, you start by determining your divinely-gifted
hero's [attribute scores]{.CharOverride-3}. These are six scores ranging
from 3 to 18 that represent your PC's natural aptitudes. A score of 3 is
very low, and like a crippled-legged god or recklessly foolish divinity
you might have that inability echoed in your Godbound's future legend. A
score of 18 is as high as a Godbound or human can reach under ordinary
circumstances, though special gifts might imbue your PC with truly
superhuman capabilities.

-   [Strength]{.CharOverride-3} measures your PC's powers of physical
    brawn. Strength improves your hero's ability in melee combat and
    allows them to exert force without the aid of their supernatural
    powers. Your Strength modifier affects melee hit rolls and damage
    rolls.
-   [Dexterity]{.CharOverride-3} is your PC's agility and precision of
    motion. It improves your hero's ability with ranged combat, their
    talent for acrobatic maneuvers, and their aptitude at dodging
    dangers. Your Dexterity modifier affects your armor class and the
    rolls made for ranged and light-weapon attacks and damage dice.
-   [Constitution]{.CharOverride-3} is the raw hardihood of your
    Godbound and their ability to keep functioning when hurt or
    exhausted. It influences a hero's hit points, which determine how
    much punishment they can take before they collapse. Constitution
    modifiers are applied to your maximum hit points.
-   [Wisdom]{.CharOverride-3} is both the perceptiveness and judgment of
    a hero, aiding them in noticing details, discerning truths, and
    making sound appraisals of a situation. Your Wisdom modifier is used
    only rarely, for certain divine powers or your Spirit saving throw.
-   [Intelligence]{.CharOverride-3} reflects the hero's raw intellectual
    capacity and their gifts of memory and logic. Many tasks of
    education or mental aptitude tax a Godbound's intelligence.
    Intelligence modifiers are also relatively rarely used, but might
    apply to your Evasion saving throw or powers that rely on your
    hero's sagacity.
-   [Charisma]{.CharOverride-3} is the raw force of personality exuded
    by the hero and their ability to instinctively command the obedience
    and reverence of others. Those with low Charisma might be ugly or
    easily ignored, while those with high Charisma seem to be natural
    leaders and worthy of respect. Your Charisma modifier is applied to
    the reaction rolls made to determine how strangers respond to your
    hero, and might also be applied to the attack and damage rolls of
    powers based on your presence or force of will.

To generate these scores, you have a choice of two methods. For the
first, you roll 4d6 six times, dropping the smallest die each time. You
then assign these totals to the attributes as you wish. The chance to
roll very well is balanced by the chance to get a rather unimpressive
set of scores, but the main strength of a Godbound lies in their
supernatural abilities, and it is possible to boost some scores later
based on the Words and gifts you choose.

If you prefer not to use the random method, you can simply assign the
following scores to your attributes in any order desired: 16, 14, 13,
13, 10, and 8.

Attribute Modifiers

Once you've rolled your attributes, you need to note the [attribute
modifier ]{.CharOverride-3}that goes with each. This modifier is added
as a bonus, or subtracted if a penalty, to certain rolls and scores. If
your attribute changes later on in play, you should change the modifier
as well.

  ---------- --------------------
  Score      Attribute Modifier
  3          -3
  4 -- 5     -2
  6 -- 8     -1
  9 -- 12    No Modifier
  13 -- 15   +1
  16 -- 17   +2
  18         +3
  ---------- --------------------

Attribute Checks

When your Godbound tries to accomplish something that would tax even
their heroic capacity, they must make an [attribute
check]{.CharOverride-3}. The check number for each attribute is equal to
21 minus the attribute score. To succeed in an attribute check, the
player must roll equal or higher to the check on a roll of 1d20. A
natural roll of 1 will always result in failure or some unfortunate
complication, while a natural roll of 20 is always a success.

An attribute check may be modified by bonuses or penalties. If your hero
has a Fact relevant to their effort, they can add +4 to their roll,
while feats that push human limits might suffer a -4 penalty, with truly
heroic challenges applying as much as -8 to the die.

Saving Throws

As a last step in rolling your hero's attributes, you need to note down
your [saving throws]{.CharOverride-3}. When your Godbound is faced with
some dire peril that requires their hardiness, determination, or
swiftness, they might be asked to make a saving throw to resist the
worst of it.

To make a saving throw, you roll 1d20 and try to roll equal or over the
requisite saving throw's score. A roll of 20 always succeeds on the save
and a roll of 1 always fails.

Your [Hardiness]{.CharOverride-3} saving throw is equal to 15 minus the
better of your Strength or Constitution modifiers. You roll a Hardiness
save against sorcerous poisons, damnable plagues, hideous
transformations, superhuman rigors of exertion, and similar physical
trials.

Your [Evasion]{.CharOverride-3} saving throw is equal to 15 minus the
better of your Dexterity or Intelligence modifiers. You roll an Evasion
save when leaping away from a crashing idol, ducking a fan of hurled
knives, or diving behind cover to avoid a tremendous explosion.

Your [Spirit]{.CharOverride-3} saving throw is equal to 15 minus the
better of your Wisdom or Charisma modifiers. You roll a Spirit save when
fighting off sinister enchantments, defying mind control, or resisting
magical effects that aren't more applicable to one of the other two
categories.

It may be that your Godbound has a modifier penalty in both attributes,
in which case their least-bad modifier [increases]{.CharOverride-2} the
saving throw. Fear not; your hero's saves improve as they advance in
experience, and you'll have the chance to improve your attribute scores
when you choose your Godbound's special powers. At great need, a
desperate Godbound can also draw on their powers to negate a failed
save.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor004}Determining
Facts

Now that you know your Godbound's basic aptitudes, you need to decide
three [Facts]{.CharOverride-3} about him or her. A Fact is simply a
sentence or short phrase that indicates something important about your
hero. When you attempt attribute checks for which a fact is relevant,
you gain a +4 bonus on the roll. Facts don\'t stack, so if you have two
qualities that both might improve the roll, you still only gain a +4
bonus. Facts only apply to attribute checks, not hit rolls or damage.

Alternatively, some Facts might allow you to do things or call on
contacts automatically that other heroes could accomplish only with
difficulty, if at all. For a newly-made PC, most of your Facts will have
to do with your character's prior life before they became Godbound.

[Your first Fact should be about your origins. ]{.CharOverride-3}Where
was your hero born? What society shaped their attitudes and choices in
life? If you're using the realm given in this book, you might choose a
specific nation or city as your place of origin, while GMs running a
campaign in their own realm might offer a different selection of
possibilities. Your hero will naturally be familiar with the land of
their birth, speaking the native language and aware of the figures of
power and influence there. They may also have their share of old grudges
toward the locals.

[Your second Fact should be about your hero's past
profession.]{.CharOverride-3} How did they earn their living, or was it
necessary for them to labor at all? Were they the wealthy scion of an
Oasis State spice-merchant, or were they a savage Howler raider from the
Golden Wastes? Did they learn the hard lessons of war in a Patrian
legion, or were they a wandering healer devoted to the arts of the
Merciful Hand? Their life may have changed drastically when they became
Godbound, but old lessons and old ties endure.

[Your third Fact should be about a relationship your hero has with some
organization, religion, or other group. ]{.CharOverride-3}Perhaps this
is a hostile relationship, as you find yourself hunted by the assassins
of the guild you left without permission. It might be a bond of blood,
as your kinsmen are still loyal to you back in your home city. This fact
might shape your present interactions, granting you bonuses to influence
friendly allies or a deep knowledge of the vile cult that you've fought
for years. It might also allow you to automatically call on contacts or
allies in the organization, though not all might be able to help.

There may be other truths about your Godbound, but these three Facts are
the most important and meaningful ones. As you pick them out, you should
also think about your character\'s awakening as a Godbound hero.
Sometimes this moment of revelation comes in the teeth of a terrible
crisis, where only divine power can save the hero or something they
cherish. At other times, however, the newfound power comes quietly and
without warning, simply infusing an ordinary man or woman who cannot
hope to guess what drew the strange blessing.

Sometimes Facts can be used to purchase special knowledge or abilities.
The low magic traditions described in the Divine Powers chapter are one
such, and your GM might have other special backgrounds accessible to
those with the right Facts. Facts used to acquire these abilities are
very narrow and specific; \"I am an archmage of the Academy of Clear
Thought\", for example, or \"I was a Surcessant Knight of Ancalia before
its fall\". If the GM allows such purchases during character creation,
these special abilities usually take up the Fact used to describe the
hero\'s past profession. Learning these knacks with Facts earned by
leveling is also possible with the right allies.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor005}Choosing
Words and Gifts

The remarkable powers of a Godbound are expressed through the [Words of
Creation]{.CharOverride-3}, portfolios of authority over the elements of
the world. The spiritual shards and strangely-refined fire of the Made
Gods have congealed about the souls of the Godbound and granted them
authority over the very fabric of reality. Low magic toys at the edges
of the world and theurgy manipulates its deep laws, but the power of the
Words can forge reality as its wielder desires.

There are numerous Words included in this book, though more exist. Each
one addresses one of the fundamental qualities of the world: Fire,
Night, Time, Beasts, and other archetypal elements of creation. Each has
its own realm of authority, though some overlap in their effects; both
Fertility and Health can grant healing, for example, while Night and the
Sky both know secrets of swift flight. Each Word describes the extent of
its potential abilities.

Your hero is bound to three of these Words. Choose from those listed
here, or work with the GM to devise your own Words of Creation. You will
have the ability to bond with further Words as you gain power and
experience, though not without cost. Each Word grants a special ability
to those who bind with it: an improved attribute, a natural power, a
special immunity, or some other grace.

You should also think about your hero's relationship to their powers. It
might seem that a Godbound of Fire should be hot-tempered and restless,
or a Godbound of Death be morbid, but this is not necessarily the case.
A Godbound's Words are [theirs]{.CharOverride-2}. They leave their mark
on these powers as much as the powers mark them. Their innate
personality and beliefs are expressed through their powers, in ways that
make sense to them. A Godbound of peace might have the Sword Word, but
express it in the form of impenetrable defensive gifts that let them
stride a battlefield untouched. A Godbound of seemingly opposing
elements such as Fire and Sea might be an intrinsically conflicted
person, or they might just understand their powers as facets of their
own complexity, with flames in one hand and floods in the other. Your
hero's powers are subordinate to your hero's own will and personality,
and you should express them as seems best to you.

Choosing Gifts

While the Words allow a Godbound to exert their will in brief, potent
miracles, most Godbound soon learn how to perform certain miraculous
feats regularly and easily. These are [gifts]{.CharOverride-3}. A
miracle of raw force can mimic a gift, but not so efficiently and
easily, and so Godbound prefer to master their favorite supernatural
powers in a more convenient form.

Gifts are in two degrees of power: lesser and greater. Lesser gifts
usually affect only the Godbound or their immediate surroundings, while
greater gifts can work marvels on entire cities or perform tremendous
feats of power. Even a novice Godbound has mastered a few of these gifts
as an intuitive part of their bonding.

You have six points to spend on your gifts and binding new Words. Lesser
gifts cost one point, greater gifts cost two, and binding an additional
Word costs three. You may only learn gifts from Words you have bound,
with one exception; you can spend 2 points to learn a lesser gift from
another Word if you can explain how your own powers are creating that
effect. Someone with Alacrity might buy the Sword gift [Thirsting
Razor]{.CharOverride-3}, for example, and explain it as their own
incredible speed leveling ultra-accurate blows. It\'s up to the GM to
decide if a given gift\'s explanation fits well enough to allow its
purchase.

  ------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------
  The Words of Creation           
  [Alacrity]{.CharOverride-3}     Agility and swiftness in motion
  [Artifice]{.CharOverride-3}     Building, repairing, and destroying objects
  [Beasts]{.CharOverride-3}       Command and transformation of beasts
  [Bow]{.CharOverride-3}          Ranged combat and impossible accuracy
  [Command]{.CharOverride-3}      Leadership, rule, and enforced obedience
  [Death]{.CharOverride-3}        Undead, death, and the dying
  [Deception]{.CharOverride-3}    Trickery, stealth, illusion, and lies
  [Earth]{.CharOverride-3}        Stone, strength, soil, and obdurate hardness
  [Endurance]{.CharOverride-3}    Tireless vigor and scorn for injury
  [Fertility]{.CharOverride-3}    Plants and growth both unnatural and normal
  [Fire]{.CharOverride-3}         Heat, smoke, light, fury and lust
  [Health]{.CharOverride-3}       Vigor, healing, and the command of disease
  [Journeying]{.CharOverride-3}   Swift, unhindered travel over far distances
  [Knowledge]{.CharOverride-3}    Knowledge both mundane and supernatural
  [Luck]{.CharOverride-3}         The having and giving of luck good and bad
  [Might]{.CharOverride-3}        Raw strength and its use in tremendous deeds
  [Night]{.CharOverride-3}        Darkness, sleep, night-passage and dreams
  [Passion]{.CharOverride-3}      Emotion, devotion, grudges, and yearnings
  [Sea]{.CharOverride-3}          Water, seas, rivers, sea-beasts, and purification
  [Sky]{.CharOverride-3}          Weather, lightning, flight, and winds
  [Sorcery]{.CharOverride-3}      Initiation into theurgic spellcasting
  [Sun]{.CharOverride-3}          Light, vision, truth, heat and banishing
  [Sword]{.CharOverride-3}        Melee combat and unarmed struggles
  [Time]{.CharOverride-3}         Prophecy, postcognition, and time-weaving
  [Wealth]{.CharOverride-3}       Money, prosperity, and abundant goods
  ------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor006}Final
Touches

Your Godbound is almost complete. Only a few more scores need to be
written down, and then your fearless demi-divinity can go forth to face
the fallen world.

[Record your maximum hit points.]{.CharOverride-3} Your hit points are a
measure of your toughness and determination. When they hit zero, your
Godbound is either dead or defeated. Your maximum hit points equal 8
plus your Constitution modifier. You restore all lost hit points after a
full night of rest, safety and relaxation. Certain forms of magic can
also heal them, but usually require you to Commit Effort to benefit.

[Record your armor class.]{.CharOverride-3} This is a measure of how
hard it is to hurt your Godbound, and the lower it is, the better. Your
base armor class equals 9, modified by Dexterity. Gifts might grant you
a naturally lower armor class, as does armor. There are several types of
armor available to your hero; pick whichever suits your hero's wishes
and past experience. Choose any saving throw penalties the armor might
inflict.

[Record your maximum Effort.]{.CharOverride-3} Effort is your Godbound's
ability to invoke their gifts and miracles. Wielding their mightier
powers may require them to "Commit" it, dedicating a point of Effort to
the effect as long as it is maintained. Powerful effects might force
them to Commit it for extended periods of time, even if the power itself
lasts only briefly. You begin with a maximum of 2 points of Effort, plus
any gained from gifts you've selected that grant bonus Effort.

[Record your maximum Influence.]{.CharOverride-3} Influence is used to
work changes on the world. New characters start with a maximum of 2
points.

[Record your attack bonus and the details of your preferred
weaponry.]{.CharOverride-3} For a newly-minted Godbound, your attack
bonus is +1. You may choose weapons from the types listed on the prior
page. Also note down your hero's Fray die of 1d8, the use of which is
explained in the next chapter's Combat section.

You might have special gifts that grant your weapons unusual might or
special qualities. These divine gifts override the natural damage dice
of the weapon and allow you to use any appropriate attribute to modify
its hit and damage rolls, even non-physical attributes.

Note down your preferred weapons with their attribute modifiers
included. Thus, if you are a nimble Godbound of Deception with a
Dexterity score of 16, a Strength of 8, and a light shortsword to hand,
you would record a total attack bonus of +3 and a damage roll of 1d6+2
when wielding it.

Choosing a Goal

The very final step for your character is to choose a goal. Your hero is
Godbound, and while they may not yet be a titan of divine might, even a
novice hero is capable of incredible deeds. Overthrowing tyrants,
bringing peace to war-torn lands, uplifting the poverty of a nation, or
breaking some villainous custom in a people are all goals that might
absorb a Godbound's interest, to say nothing of the pleasures of a
simple pursuit of raw personal power.

It is very important that every hero have a goal. The campaign realm
lies open before them, and without goals it can be hard to decide what
your group ought to try to accomplish. Try to ensure that your PC's goal
is compatible with those of the rest of the group, or at least not in
active opposition to their aims.

Some PCs might let their goals stand in abeyance for a time as they help
their pantheon-mates accomplish their own ends. This is perfectly fine.
The purpose of goals is to motivate the group to adventure and bold
action, and if adventure is happening then the job is done well.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer007 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor007}Creating
Your Hero

You can follow the steps here to create a newly-forged demigod. Less
experienced players can read more about each step in the following
pages, while those familiar with the process can just go down the list.
The character sheet reproduced to the right is numbered to show you
where each entry goes. You\'ll find blank and form-fillable PDFs
included with the downloads for free and pay versions of this book.

1.  Roll or assign your hero\'s [attribute scores]{.CharOverride-3} to
    determine their innate strengths and weaknesses. If you want to roll
    them, roll 4d6 six times, dropping the lowest die each time and
    adding the other three together. The higher the roll, the stronger
    the hero in that quality. Assign these six scores to the attributes
    in this section in any order desired. If you\'d rather just assign
    an array, put these numbers in any order: 16, 14, 13, 13, 10, and 8.

2.  Record your hero\'s [attribute modifiers]{.CharOverride-3}. Usually,
    you don\'t apply your whole score to a relevant die roll. Instead,
    you just apply a bonus or penalty. If your attribute score is 3,
    your modifier for the attribute is -3. For scores of 4--5, its -2,
    for 6--8 it\'s -1, for 9--12 it\'s +0, for 13--15 it\'s +1, for
    16--17 it\'s +2, and for a mighty score of 18, it\'s +3.

3.  Note down your hero\'s [attribute checks.]{.CharOverride-3} For each
    attribute, subtract it from 21 to find that attribute\'s check
    score. Whenever your character tries to accomplish something that
    would tax even the prowess of a legendary hero, you need to roll
    1d20 and roll equal or higher than this check number. Particularly
    difficult tasks might apply a penalty, while a relevant Fact might
    grant you a bonus, or even make the effort an automatic success.

4.  Decide three [Facts]{.CharOverride-3} about your hero and record
    them here. A Fact is an important truth about your hero, one that
    shapes their past and abilities. One Fact should be about where they
    came from, one Fact should be about how they acquired the skills
    they used to survive before awakening to their divine power, and one
    Fact should be about some sort of important relationship or
    organization they\'re involved with.

    Each Fact doesn\'t need to be more than a sentence or two long.
    Facts help you when you make relevant attribute checks. Whenever
    you\'re making an attribute check to do something your Facts would
    make you good at, you gain a +4 bonus to the attribute check roll.
    In some cases, you might not need to make a check at all where a
    less pertinently-experienced hero would need to roll. Facts don\'t
    modify hit or damage rolls.

    If you\'re playing a campaign in the realm of Arcem, check page
    [[95]{.Hyperlink}]() for a quick description of the nations of that
    place and some ideas for your hero\'s background. If you\'re playing
    in some other setting, talk with the GM and choose a concept.

5.  Pick three [Words]{.CharOverride-3} from those described in the
    Divine Powers chapter. These Words describe your hero\'s divine
    powers and Godbound might. They should express something meaningful
    about the character\'s personality and favorite approach toward
    dealing with problems. Ultimately, though, a Godbound\'s Words are
    emanations of [their]{.CharOverride-2} nature. Your hero controls
    their Words and decides how they manifest their powers.

6.  Record the special abilities your bound Words grant you. Every Word
    gives a special power to the Godbound who binds it. Some of these
    are magical abilities, while others let you boost certain attribute
    scores. Don\'t forget to change your attribute modifiers and checks
    if you need to, or reshuffle stats if needed.

7.  Spend six points picking [divine gifts]{.CharOverride-3}. You can
    pick gifts from your bound Words by spending one point on mastering
    a lesser gift and two points on mastering a greater one. You can
    master lesser gifts from outside your bound Words by spending two
    points apiece if you can explain how your own existing Words could
    create that effect. You\'ll find the gifts listed in the Divine
    Powers chapter, but don\'t forget to glance at page
    [[29]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor023)
    for those gifts that every Word offers. Optionally, you can spend
    three points to bond yet another Word. You\'ll learn how to bind
    more Words and gifts with time and experience.

8.  Record your [saving throws]{.CharOverride-3} here. For your
    Hardiness saving throw, measuring your resistance to exhaustion,
    poison, and bodily transformation, subtract the higher of your
    Strength or Constitution modifiers from 15. For your Evasion saving
    throw to dodge explosions, death rays, and other incoming hazards,
    subtract the higher of your Dexterity or Intelligence modifiers
    from 15. For your Spirit saving throw to resist mind control,
    curses, and magical sendings, subtract the higher of your Wisdom or
    Charisma modifiers from 15. Note that if both of your modifiers are
    penalties, your saving throws might actually be higher than 15.

    When the GM tells you to make a saving throw, roll 1d20 and try to
    roll equal or higher than your saving throw score in that category.
    As a Godbound, you can always automatically succeed on an
    otherwise-failed saving throw if you have enough divine energy left
    to save yourself.

9.  Choose your weapons from page [13]{.Hyperlink}, assuming you want to
    carry any. Weapons have a damage die and a relevant attribute,
    usually Strength for melee weapons and Dexterity for ranged ones. If
    a weapon is listed with two attributes, you can choose whichever is
    higher. Note down the weapons here. For the \"+ hit\" entry, mark
    down the relevant attribute bonus plus one. For the damage die,
    write down the weapon\'s damage plus your attribute modifier. Thus,
    if you had a Strength modifier of +2 and decided your hero carried a
    heavy two-handed hammer, you\'d write down \"+3\" for the hit bonus
    and \"1d10+2\" for the damage.

    Also note down your [Fray]{.CharOverride-3} die, which is 1d8 for
    most heroes. Your Fray die is rolled each round to damage lesser
    foes, and you can usually count on taking out one or two ordinary
    human enemies each round even without an explicit attack action.
    Major enemies are immune to your Fray die\'s damage, however, so
    you\'ll need to deal with them in a more direct fashion.

10. Pick a type of armor from page
    [[13]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor010)
    if your hero is the sort to wear it. Armor lowers your [armor
    class]{.CharOverride-3}, making it harder to hurt your hero.
    Unarmored humans of no special nimbleness have an AC of 9, while
    better armor lowers the score, as do certain divine gifts that grant
    a better base armor class.

    Armor does hinder the wearer, though, and the heavier the armor, the
    worse the hindrance. If you wear medium armor, pick one saving throw
    category: Hardiness, Evasion, or Spirit. You suffer a -4 penalty on
    that type of saving throw roll as the armor tires you out, slows you
    down, or attracts negative spiritual powers. If you wear heavy
    armor, pick two saving throw categories to penalize. Light armor and
    shields don\'t apply a penalty.

    Once you\'ve chosen your armor, if any, subtract your Dexterity
    modifier from your armor class. Even a Dexterity penalty can\'t make
    it worse than AC 9, however.

11. Write down your hero\'s [hit points]{.CharOverride-3} here. Hit
    points are a measure of a Godbound\'s nearness to defeat. If you run
    out of hit points, your hero is gravely wounded or incapacitated by
    their foes, and can no longer act. If you\'re hurt again while at
    zero hit points, your hero will perish.

    A new Godbound has eight hit points, modified by their Constitution
    modifier. You can recover lost hit points by resting. A full
    night\'s sleep will restore any you\'ve lost.

12. Note down your hero\'s [Effort]{.CharOverride-3} score, which is 2
    unless you\'ve taken gifts that increase it. Effort is the measure
    of your Godbound\'s available divine energy. You commit it to use
    certain gifts or succeed on failed saving throws, and you get it
    back when the gifts are no longer needed or you have some time to
    rest.

    Effort is the fuel of a Godbound\'s divine powers. If all your
    Effort has been committed, your hero is at their limit.

13. You start the game with 0 [Wealth]{.CharOverride-3}. Your Godbound
    usually has the money or abilities to get whatever minor goods and
    services they wish, but if you want to buy real estate, own ships,
    throw huge parties, or otherwise spend lavishly, you\'re going to
    need to find properly gleaming mounds of Wealth.

14. You also start the game with 0 [Experience]{.CharOverride-3} and
    [Dominion]{.CharOverride-3} points. Your Experience total increases
    as your Godbound overcomes worthy challenges and works meaningful
    changes in the world. Once you get enough experience, your hero will
    gain new powers and hardihood. Dominion measures the Godbound\'s
    available divine authority over creation and their power to create
    large-scale changes and wonders in the world. You\'ll earn this
    through overcoming challenges, and spend it enacting your will.

15. Your Godbound starts with 2 [Influence]{.CharOverride-3} points,
    unless you\'ve taken gifts that increase this total. Influence
    measures your hero\'s capacity to sustain projects and changes with
    their own personal attention. You can use Influence in place of
    Dominion to make a change, but as soon as you take back your
    Influence points to do something else, the situation falls back to
    its normal baseline.

16. Write in your hero\'s name here and decide what they look and act
    like. Take a moment to think about how it looks when they\'re using
    their divine powers, and how they might act toward their
    pantheon-mates, the masses of ordinary people, or their own eventual
    worshipers. Avoid making heroes who are loners or troublemakers
    toward their own comrades. While a little intra-group tension can be
    an interesting spice, the best campaigns usually involve making an
    enormous amount of trouble for people who are [not]{.CharOverride-2}
    your fellow heroes.

    Lastly, write down your Godbound\'s current goal right here. They
    might want to use their new abilities to avenge themselves on a
    formerly-untouchable tormentor, or do some great work to benefit
    their people, or simply want to accumulate impractically large
    amounts of gold and companions of negotiable virtue. You can change
    your goal whenever it makes sense to you, but you should always have
    at least one of them to help direct your demigod\'s legendary deeds.
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer008 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/CharacterSheetFlattened.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer009 .Sidebar}
Creating New Words and Gifts

The Words of Creation offered here and the gifts listed in the following
chapter are by no means exclusive. Different campaign settings or
character concepts might call out for different Words. If you and the GM
are comfortable with the system and would like to create your own Words
and gifts, that is entirely possible General guidelines for creating new
powers are given on page
[[28]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor026).

You don\'t need to change the mechanics of a power in order to make it
suit your needs, however. Sometimes, it\'s entirely sufficient to just
change a Word\'s name and tweak its special effects to make it fit your
concept. A Godbound pledged to the Desert might have gifts and abilities
identical to those of the Word of Fire, except described as withering
heat, freezing cold, or parching dryness. They might not be able to work
miracles of consuming flame, but they could call forth marvels that
involve lethal dessication, sandblasting, or mirage-like illusions.

If your concept fits a slightly different take on a cosmic reality, you
might just work with your GM to make these tweaks and let your hero
wield familiar powers under a new name.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer010 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker000}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor008}Wealth
and Equipment

Your PC has on their person or available nearby whatever equipage or
belongings might be appropriate to their background and situation. Any
Godbound can lay hands on weapons or armor to suit them given a little
time, but if there's any question as to whether or not they own
something or have it on them, just consult their situation. If they are
prepared for a particular undertaking or role, such as delving into a
lost Night Road, or acting as a roving spice merchant, or infiltrating a
palace to poison a malevolent god-king, they have whatever equipment
might be expected for the task in whatever quantities seem reasonable.
Special equipment such as magical items or celestial artifacts are
always tracked separately.

Particularly grand purchases that don't fit their existing Facts must be
purchased with [Wealth]{.CharOverride-3} points. Sailing ships, real
estate, grand celebrations, legendary carousing, the bribes of high
officials, the outfitting of mercenary bands, and other major
expenditures fall under this heading, while pettier purchases can simply
be assumed, as Godbound have many means of acquiring what they need. As
a newly-fashioned Godbound, your PC has not yet earned any Wealth worth
the name, but will doubtless rectify that shortcoming as soon as
possible.

The availability of equipment and possessions will depend on the
character's surroundings. If the pantheon is lucky enough to have a
Godbound of Artifice along, they may not lack for anything conceivable
to the artificers of the realm. Other groups will have to make do with
the talents of the local craftsmen or their own scavenging.

Most nations in a realm will have technology no more sophisticated than
Renaissance Europe at best, with many impoverished lands lacking even
that. Gunpowder weapons are unknown in most realms, and only through
rare artifices, diligent excavation, or special enchantments can more
advanced gear be acquired by a hero.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer011 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor009}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor010}Armor

Amid the flashing blades and thunderous bolts of combat, a little steel
is welcome between a warrior's skin and an enemy sword. Armor improves
the wearer's [armor class]{.CharOverride-3}, making them more difficult
to hurt in a fight. The lower the armor class, the better. Armor class
is modified by the subject's Dexterity modifier, with a bonus lowering
it and a penalty raising it. A hero's armor class can never be worse
than 9, even if they're unarmored and exceptionally slow.

Wearing armor comes at a cost, however. It pinches, burdens, and has
unfortunate occult impurities. If you wear medium armor, apply a -4
penalty to a saving throw roll of your choice; maybe your hauberk slows
you down, hindering your Evasion, or maybe it's just heavy on your
shoulders, and harms your Hardiness, or maybe the light, flexible alloy
it's made of is a dangerous conductor of curses, penalizing your Spirit
save. You can choose whichever saving throw you prefer, but can't change
it for that particular suit of armor afterwards. If you wear heavy
armor, choose two categories to be penalized. Shields and light armor
inflict no penalties.

  -------- ---------- -------------------------------------
  Type     Base AC    
  None     9          Skin or clothing
  Light    7          Leathers or hides
  Medium   5          Mail or light plate. -4 to one save
  Heavy    3          Heavy plate. -4 to two saves
  Shield   -1 bonus   No save penalty
  -------- ---------- -------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer012 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor011}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor012}Weapons

Rather than provide a lengthy list of armaments that are all largely
identical in murderous function, weapons in [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}
are broken down into a few basic categories. Light weapons are small or
light implements of death such as knives, short blades, rapiers, clubs,
brass knuckles or the like. Medium weapons are one-handed swords, maces,
spears, or similar tools. Heavy weapons require two hands, and are
greatswords, battle axes, mauls, and huge clubs. Ranged weapons are
bows, crossbows, and the magnetic rifles of the Bright Republic, though
smaller one-handed ranged weapons roll a 1d6 for damage.

Each type of weapon has a damage die and one or more attributes
associated with it. Wielders add that attribute's modifier to their hit
roll and damage roll with the weapon. Where two attributes are listed
the wielder can use the better of the two. Weapons used as part of a
magical attack granted by a gift can use whatever attribute seems most
appropriate to the way they are being wielded.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- ----------- ------------------------
  Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Damage   Attribute   
  Unarmed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1d2      Str / Dex   Punch, kick, bite
  Light                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1d6      Str / Dex   Dirk, club, rapier
  Medium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1d8      Str         Sword, spear, mace
  Heavy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1d10     Str         Greatsword, maul
  1H Ranged                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1d6      Dex         Pistol, javelin, knife
  2H Ranged                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1d8      Dex         Bow, rifle, crossbow
  Thrown weapons and pistols have a maximum range of 40 yards. Bows and crossbows can reach up to 300 yards, and magnetic rifles can fire at targets up to 500 yards distant. High-tech weaponry is largely non-functional outside the Bright Republic.                        
  For dual-weapon wielders, treat their paired weapons as a single two-handed weapon doing 1d10 damage and using either Strength or Dexterity as the attribute that modifies their rolls.                                                                                      
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- ----------- ------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer013 .Sidebar}
Special Character Creation Cases

The character creation rules given here are meant to cover the most
common campaigns and character concepts. Your group might be running a
slightly different game, perhaps using the themed Godbound or mortal
heroes described in the deluxe version of the
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} core rules, but a few common tweaks are
worth mentioning for groups with a special case or two.

At the GM\'s discretion, a PC can start with a minor magic item that
fits their concept. In particular, a set of [regalia armor
]{.CharOverride-3}as described on page
[[183]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor182)
can give a hero a decent armor class without sacrificing the visual
style of the PC. Such small tokens are no real balance concern, as it\'s
so easy for Godbound to create or obtain them during play.

Starting with a full-fledged artifact is also possible, but usually
requires that one of the PC\'s Facts be related specifically to how they
got the artifact. This Fact is usually largely useless in other ways,
and is probably so narrow it almost never applies its bonus to an
attribute check. Such starting artifacts should cost no more than eight
Dominion points to create, though if the artifact is imagined as some
key element of the hero\'s legacy, the GM might allow them to increase
its power over time by spending Dominion, perhaps at double what the
original creation would cost.

Some players will want to play supernatural creatures or mighty beasts,
such as liches, dragons, or the tremendously gifted heroes of transhuman
realms. In most cases, this can be accomplished simply by choosing the
appropriate Words to represent the creature\'s abilities. Thus, a player
who wanted to play a dragon in a game might choose the Fire, Endurance,
and Might Words and spend two gift points on picking up [Sapphire
Wings]{.CharOverride-3} from Sky. The player might later invest in
getting the Wealth word to represent the tremendous hoard he\'s managed
to gather and the inexhaustible riches he\'s stored away.

GMs should also be ready to let PCs define the details of their gifts
and abilities. As a rule of thumb, if the power still has the same
effect, the player should be allowed to describe it in whatever way
suits them. A dragon PC with the Wealth Word might buy both [Divine
Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} and [Corona of Fury]{.CharOverride-3}. The
former could be described as a breath weapon of molten gold that
sublimates moments later, while the latter might be a snap of the
beast\'s jeweled wings that sprays a cloud of corundum shards at the
enemy and leaves only worthless fragments behind. While showy, the
actual mechanical effects are the same as the default power, so there\'s
no danger to game balance.

Some concepts might also call for an ability that just doesn\'t seem to
fit with any of the Words listed in the book. The PC might not need more
than one or two of these abilities, and so there\'s no call to create an
entirely new Word. Instead, the GM should just write up the power as a
one-off lesser gift of no particular Word and let the PC buy it for two
gift points. Note that if the power is so strong that it would more
properly be a greater gift, it might be too strong to add without
obliging the PC to bond an appropriate Word. The ability to buy greater
gifts is one of the perks a PC gets for expending their limited Word
picks on a particular set of powers. Allowing characters to just dip in
and take the strongest powers of other Words can cause balance issues,
so the GM should think carefully before allowing it.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer014 .Text-Frame}
Building Cassandra Corvo

Dee\'s decided to join in on a game of Godbound and is sitting down to
make up her character. She decides she wants to play a sorceress of some
kind, a sophisticated scholar-patrician with magical gifts who has only
recently come into her powers as a Godbound. The GM has told her that
the campaign will be set in the realm of Arcem and that she should feel
free to pick any origin from that place, so she turns to page
[[95]{.Hyperlink}]() and glances over the various nations. The
city-states of Vissio look interesting, so she turns to page
[[89]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor101),
reads up a little about them, and decides that a Vissian patrician\'s
daughter is a good place to start with her character. The name list for
Vissio provides some inspiration, and she names her heroine Cassandra
Corvo.

Dee doesn\'t much enjoy random attribute generation, so she decides to
use the default attribute array to describe Cassandra. She decides that
Cassandra\'s not remarkable in her physical talents, but she\'s
strikingly intelligent and charismatic. She puts her 16 in Intelligence,
14 in Wisdom, 13 in Charisma, 13 in Dexterity, 10 in Constitution, and 8
in Strength. She notes down her attribute modifiers for each score, and
subtracts each score from 21 to find her attribute check targets.

Dee knows that Cassandra comes from a wealthy Vissian patrician family,
so she makes that her first Fact; \"Vissian daughter of wealth and
privilege.\" But she wants Cassandra to be more than just a dilettante
daughter; she wants her to be a daring scholar of antiquity. She writes
her second Fact accordingly; \"Learned scholar-explorer of ancient
architecture and cultures.\" The third Fact is hardest. It should be
about a relationship or tie she has, but she\'s not sure what
possibilities exist in Vissio. The GM advises her that she can just make
something up, so she decides that Cassandra is a member of the Vissian
Antiquarian Society, a loose fraternity of explorers, ruin-robbers, and
scholars who rove far in search of secrets. Her third Fact is thus,
\"Member in good standing of the Vissian Antiquarian Society.\"

Now Dee needs to pick three Words to describe the supernatural gifts
that awoke in her when she became Godbound. She knows she wants
Cassandra to be a sorceress, so she picks Sorcery for one. Knowledge
fits her status as a scholar, and for the third, Dee chooses Deception.
Cassandra knows the byzantine paths of Vissian politics, and lies and
chicanery come easy to her. She notes down each Word\'s special
abilities, using Knowledge to raise her Intelligence to 18. She pauses
when she gets to Deception, though, as that 8 in Strength doesn\'t
really sit well with her. She doesn\'t imagine Cassandra being
particularly weak of arm. She decides to move that 8 into Charisma and
then use Deception\'s Word ability to raise it to 16. The other stats
are shuffled slightly, leaving Wisdom at 14, Constitution at 13,
Dexterity at 13, and Strength at 10.

Six points go into Cassandra\'s gifts. For Sorcery, she spends two on
[Adept of the Gate]{.CharOverride-3} and [The Subtle Eye of
Knowing]{.CharOverride-3}. Deception gets three points for [Deceiver\'s
Unblinking Eye]{.CharOverride-3}, [Liar\'s Flawless
Grace]{.CharOverride-3}, and [Shadow Play]{.CharOverride-3}. Lastly,
Knowledge gets [The Best Course]{.CharOverride-3}. Cassandra hasn\'t got
much knack for combat, but in an emergency she can use miracles to
emulate combat gifts like [Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3}, or trigger
Deception gifts like [Walking Ghost]{.CharOverride-3} to escape the
scene.

Now that she has her final attribute scores, she can write down her
saving throws. For Hardiness, it\'s 14 thanks to her Constitution
modifier, for Evasion it\'s 12 because of her high Intelligence, and for
Spirit it\'s 13 due to her Charisma modifier. For weapons, she only
carries a knife up one sleeve and some hardened throwing spikes in her
hair. They\'re both light weapons that do 1d6 damage, +1 for her
Dexterity modifier. Their hit bonus is +2, including her +1 base bonus
and +1 for Dexterity.

Dee considers armor next, but it\'s hard for her to imagine her
scholarly adventuress walking around in a mail shirt. She asks the GM
for permission to have a pair of enchanted bracers as [regalia
armor]{.CharOverride-3} from page
[[183]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor182),
emulating normal light armor. The GM agrees that it\'s fine, since it\'s
merely a style point to let the bracers spark with a crackling blue
shield to block incoming weapons. With a base armor class of 7, her
Dexterity modifier of +1 is subtracted to give her an armor class of 6.
Because the bracers are light armor, there\'s no saving throw penalty.

The last steps are just a matter of writing down some scores on her
sheet. Her maximum hit points are 9, accounting for her beginning 8 plus
her Constitution modifier. Her Fray die is 1d8. Her maximum Effort is 2,
as is her Influence, and she has no starting experience points or
Wealth. While she comes from a prosperous family, she\'s clearly spent
most of her finances on her expeditions.

Because Cassandra is an Adept of the Gate, she also needs to pick four
theurgic invocations of the Gate to start with from the list on page
[[63]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor067).
She decides to pick ones that fit Cassandra\'s likely needs; the [Beacon
of Celestial Purity]{.CharOverride-3} to maintain her patrician
immaculateness, the [Kiss of the Crane ]{.CharOverride-3}as an offensive
spell, the [Seal of Regnal Dominion]{.CharOverride-3} to sway weak
minds, and the [Trumpet of Far Utterance]{.CharOverride-3} to talk to
her allies from afar. More spells can be discovered in time.

Lastly, Dee needs to decide what Cassandra\'s goal is when she enters
play. She thinks back on Cassandra\'s recent awakening as a Godbound,
and decides that a heroine as young and curious as Signorina Corvo is
still exploring her wondrous newfound gifts. She\'ll look for the
biggest mysteries and most perilous places and try to pry out their
truths... if nothing else is particularly demanding her attention. Her
goals may well change over time as she becomes more involved with great
matters in Arcem, but for now, this motivation is enough to give her an
initial push.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer015 .Single-Column}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor013}The
Rules of the Game

Facing a World of Adventure and Peril
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer016 .Text-Frame}
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is a traditional old-school game in many
respects. Those readers who\'ve been gaming for years are very likely to
recognize almost all of the mechanical concepts that follow in this
section, and it shouldn\'t take you long at all to get up to speed. A
quick-reference page is provided on page
[[23]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor019)
which you can print out to keep at the table. If the players all keep
track of their own gifts and powers, you shouldn\'t need much more to
run a session of [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}.

[Experienced players of older games are advised to read the combat
section ]{.CharOverride-4}[very carefully]{.CharOverride-5}[, however.
]{.CharOverride-4}[Godbound]{.CharOverride-6}[ uses a different system
for determining the damage of a blow in combat, and if you don\'t take
note of it, your combat results won\'t make sense.]{.CharOverride-4}

What These Rules Cover

This section includes guidelines for combat, the outcome of difficult
feats attempted by heroes, and attempts at resisting the malevolent
power of evil magic, vile poisons, and unfortunate circumstances.
Readers will also find the rules for improving their hero\'s
capabilities through experience and mighty deeds.

These rules are sufficient to cover the great majority of situations a
hero might find themselves encountering, but they\'re not exhaustive. A
GM should always be ready to step in and make a spot call on an effort,
or apply modifiers to a roll when it seems appropriate. It\'s better to
make an adequate ruling on the spot and then sort out a future policy
after the session\'s over than it is to spend five minutes digging
through the book mid-scene in search of the perfect ruling.

When Rules Aren\'t Needed

A GM needs to remember that Godbound heroes operate on a somewhat
different plane than traditional old-school dirt
farmers-turned-adventurers. Godbound aren\'t untouchable paragons of
blazing perfection, it\'s true, but there are a lot of problems and
situations that just do not hinder them the way they would a more
conventional RPG protagonist. There are times when an ability check or a
combat round that would make perfect sense in another system is
altogether unnecessary in [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}.

[The PCs are demigods.]{.CharOverride-2} Whenever the GM looks at a
situation or adjudicates something the PC is trying to accomplish, this
fact should be kept front and center in their minds. It\'s perfectly
fine to make an apprentice pigherder with a spear roll a Dexterity check
to navigate a slippery log over a roaring river. It is somewhat less
appropriate to demand the same roll from a Divine Blade Queen.

By the same token, when that pigherder tries to stick his spear into a
generic knife-waving bandit, a hit roll makes perfect sense. If the
Divine Blade Queen wants to end the petty ruffian, the only question is
how exactly she wants to disject his constituent parts. She is a goddess
of Stab. [Stab will happen]{.CharOverride-2}.

In the same vein, it is important to remember that most other NPCs are
[not]{.CharOverride-2} demigods. Most people, even most petty monsters
and ordinary vile beasts, are simply not going to be able to stand up to
the Godbound. Low-level demigods might need to show some respect to
mortal heroes and prowling monsters, but veteran Godbound are going to
be able to sweep aside most mortal resistance with minimal effort. The
player should be spending their time describing how it is they succeed
in the contest or drive their trifling foes before them.

Does this mean that the heroes should progress in undisturbed majesty to
the crown of all their desires? Of course not. It just means that the GM
ought to respect their innate heroism and maintain a reasonable world,
where most people are not suited for opposing bearers of the Words of
Creation. There are plenty of horrific demi-divine foes to make even the
mightiest Godbound sweat, and their impact on play will be all the more
significant if it\'s obvious that only the PCs are equipped to deal with
threats like them.

Importing Rules from Other Games

As an OSR-style game, [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is implicitly
compatible with a huge range of other fantasy RPGs. Many of these other
games offer additional content or special-case rules for handling
certain situations. You might have your own favorite system already, and
want to import some of its quirks into this one.

Assuming you\'re familiar with your gaming group\'s tastes, this is an
excellent idea. [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}\'s mechanical systems are
light and simple enough that GM can easily reach in and start tweaking
things to fit their own group\'s tastes. You may want to play a session
or two of the game \"straight\" beforehand, though, just to be sure you
understand how the parts work in play. Once you feel comfortable with
it, however, you should feel free to modify it to suit your own best
preferences.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker001}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor014}Attribute
Checks

Attribute checks are rolled when a hero attempts something that tests
the limits of even their prodigious abilities or when their efforts are
being opposed by some worthy opponent.

An attribute's check target is equal to 21 minus the attribute score. To
make an attribute check, roll 1d20 and compare it to the most relevant
attribute's check number, adding +4 to the roll if they have a Fact that
would help them with the task. If the roll is equal or greater than the
score, they succeed. If the roll is lower, then something happens to
complicate the situation and it doesn't work out as they desire.
Godbound almost never simply [fail]{.CharOverride-2} at something they
try to do, but it might take too long, work as unanticipated, or add
some fresh complication to the situation.

A natural roll of 1 on a check is always a failure, while a roll of 20
is always a success, assuming success is at all possible.

If the Godbound is being opposed by someone, then both the Godbound and
their opponent make rolls, and the one who succeeds by the largest
margin wins the contest. If the opponent hasn't got attribute scores
recorded, the GM should just pick an appropriate score.

Some checks might be modified by the situation or the difficulty of the
tasks. Feats that would tax human capabilities might take a -4 penalty
to the roll, while penalties of up to -8 might be applied for tasks that
seem only marginally possible for a human being. Completely impossible
feats require the use of a gift or miracle to achieve.

When Not To Use Attribute Checks

Not everything a Godbound tries to accomplish should require an
attribute check. If a hero has a relevant Fact, then most activities
related to that Fact should be automatic successes. A Godbound from the
nomadic Howler tribes shouldn't be rolling attribute checks for riding
tricks or handling beasts unless she's trying something truly
ridiculous, and a hero with a Fact relating to their membership in an
organization shouldn't need to roll Charisma checks just to contact
group members or get ordinary favors from them.

Don't use attribute checks when the hero is invoking their gifts or the
miracles of their divine Words. If a hero invokes a miracle, the miracle
just [works]{.CharOverride-2}. The hero's powers will always succeed
unless some other Godbound, worthy foe, or remarkable force is
interfering.

Don't use attribute checks when the hero is trying to do some mortal
feat that is in line with their associated Words of Creation. A Godbound
of Earth trying to pick up a heavy rock or knock down a stone pillar
with a hammer will succeed. A Godbound of Fertility won\'t have problems
midwifing a child\'s birth. The only time a check would ever be needed
for such things is if some worthy supernatural opposition is trying to
make it hard.

[Do]{.CharOverride-2} use attribute checks when the hero is trying to do
something outside their Words or specialties that a normal human could
theoretically accomplish, but that would be a challenge even to a hero.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor015}Advancement

A Godbound gains power through mighty deeds and the exertion of their
will upon the world. They require both practical experience of the world
and the chance to work their desires upon it before they're ready to
master new gifts.

Godbound earn [experience points]{.CharOverride-3}[
]{.CharOverride-2}for accomplishing worthy goals. These goals must
somehow tax the Godbound's abilities; overthrowing the mortal tyrant of
an important city-state might be a serious challenge to a pantheon of
low-level Godbound, while it would be little more than an afterthought
to a group of major demigods. Conversely, toppling the god-king of an
entire blasted realm might challenge the powers of the greatest of
Godbound. The GM has guidelines for deciding how many experience points
a feat should be awarded.

Godbound gain Dominion points through the performance of mighty deeds,
the worship of their cult, and the assimilation of certain celestial
relics. These Dominion points are then expended to create permanent
changes in the realms they inhabit, or even to forge their own Paradise
in the chaos of Uncreated Night. A Godbound who has not expended enough
Dominion has yet to truly embrace their regnant will, and must work
greater changes before they are ready to ascend.

Gaining a Level

Once a Godbound has earned enough experience points and spent enough
Dominion on their projects to qualify for a new level, they immediately
gain the benefits of advancement.

-   Their attack bonus increases by 1.
-   Their maximum hit points increase by 4, plus half of their
    Constitution modifier, rounded upward.
-   Their maximum Effort and Influence increase by 1.
-   Their saving throw scores each decrease by 1.
-   They add a new Fact related to their adventures or deeds.

Once they've made these changes, they can spend 2 more points on
additional gifts from the Words they know. Lesser gifts cost 1 point,
and greater gifts cost 2. They can also save up the points for later
purchases, or for gaining access to a new Word for 3 points. At the
GM\'s discretion, heroes can buy lesser gifts from other Words for 2
points each, if they can explain how their own powers can create the new
gift\'s effects. Once they bind a new Word, any earlier single gifts in
it that they bought at extra cost get the extra fee refunded.

At the GM's discretion, during ordinary play they might be allowed to
immediately spend saved points to master gifts they invoke with their
miracles. Such a purchase would represent the sudden mastery of the
power they find within themselves.

The table provided here ends at level 10. It may be possible for
Godbound to ascend past this level of power, but heroes of this degree
have the might of a true divinity, one capable of working wonders and
rewarding the faith of their followers. A GM who wishes to explore
greater degrees of celestial authority is encouraged to develop their
own gifts. Even those heroes who do not exceed 10th level can still earn
Dominion and expend it on their aims.

+-------+------------+----------+
| Level | Experience | Dominion |
|       |            |          |
|       | Required   | Spent    |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 1     | 0          | 0        |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 2     | 3          | 2        |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 3     | 6          | 4        |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 4     | 12         | 10       |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 5     | 24         | 22       |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 6     | 48         | 38       |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 7     | 72         | 57       |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 8     | 96         | 76       |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 9     | 130        | 95       |
+-------+------------+----------+
| 10    | 170        | 124      |
+-------+------------+----------+

Gifts of Apotheosis

Godbound are prototypical divinities, and the might of the gods
themselves gradually blooms within them as they grow in power. The
Apotheosis Word represents this gradual ascent, and its gifts
automatically accrue to Godbound who reach certain levels of power.

For some campaigns, the GM may choose to ignore the Apotheosis Word. It
might not fit the focus of the game, or the players may not be
interested in forming or tending a flock of believers. Some Godbound
might not want to bother with such things, and that's a perfectly
acceptable choice.

These churchless Godbound are free divinities, and get a certain amount
of Dominion automatically each month as they husband their own celestial
powers. The amount of Dominion they gain each month is one point,
starting at second level, plus one more for each three full character
levels. They do not receive any of the usual gifts of the Apotheosis
Word and cannot have worshipers. A free divinity may form a church, and
a Godbound with followers may abandon them to become free, but doing so
is at the GM's discretion, and may require a mighty deed to arrange this
change of status.

For other Godbound, though, the following gifts are obtained
automatically on reaching certain levels.

+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| Level | Gifts of Apotheosis                             |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 1     | [--]{.CharOverride-3}                           |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 2     | [Receive the Incense of Faith]{.CharOverride-3} |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 3     | [Sanctify Shrine]{.CharOverride-3}              |
|       |                                                 |
|       | [Smite the Apostate]{.CharOverride-3}           |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 4     | [Hear Prayer]{.CharOverride-3}                  |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 5     | [Perceive the Petitioner]{.CharOverride-3}      |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 6     | [Mark of the Prophet]{.CharOverride-3}          |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 7     | [Attend the Faithful]{.CharOverride-3}          |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 8     | [To Bless the Nations]{.CharOverride-3}         |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 9     | [--]{.CharOverride-3}                           |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+
| 10    | [--]{.CharOverride-3}                           |
+-------+-------------------------------------------------+

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker002}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor016}Combat

Godbound wield tremendous powers of destruction, but even ordinary men
and women can struggle for their lives with blade and bludgeon. Mighty
heroes might lay out lesser foes in bloody windrows, but enough
determined and death-ready rabble can put fear in even a demigod's
heart.

The Combat Round

Combat is measured in rounds of approximately six seconds. Player
characters always act first during the combat round, unless they've been
ambushed or surprised. In such cases, the ambushing group gets a full
round of actions before the victims can act. After the heroes have
acted, the other participants act in whatever order the GM might choose.

During their turn, a combatant can move their full movement rate and
take a single action. Normal humans have a movement rate of 30 feet,
while other creatures might be swifter.

A combatant's action for the round might be an attack, the use of a
special power or gift, a second turn of movement, or anything else that
takes about six seconds to accomplish. Minor acts such as drawing a
weapon, dropping an object, or speaking are considered free actions and
don't take up a combatant's round.

Once everyone has acted in a combat round, the sequence starts over from
the beginning.

Activating Gifts and Miracles

Godbound can use their gifts and miracles freely out of combat, assuming
they have enough free Effort to activate the power. In combat, things
get more hectic.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker003}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker004}Instant
gifts can be used at any time, whether or not it's the Godbound's turn.
They can even be used in response to an enemy's attack. Dropping a
gift's effects to free up Effort also counts as Instant.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker005}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker006}On
Turn gifts can be used only during the Godbound's turn, though they can
use as many of them as they wish and can afford to trigger. Action gifts
count as the Godbound's action for the round, and so only one can be
used on any given turn.

Offensive miracles that harm a foe or dispel their self-buffing gifts
count as actions. Other miracle use counts as an Instant effect.

Attacking a Foe

To hit with an attack, the assailant rolls 1d20 and adds their attack
bonus, their relevant attribute modifier, and the target's armor class.
If the total is 20 or more, it's a hit. A natural roll of 1 always
misses and a natural 20 always hits. Most assailants get only a single
attack for their action, but some beasts or sublimely-skillful
combatants can make multiple attacks in a single action.

A combatant in melee who moves away from a foe without spending their
action disengaging draws an instant free melee attack from all nearby
foes. Some gifts allow a hero to avoid these passing blows.

Rolling
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker007}Damage

If an attack hits, the assailant rolls their weapon's damage die and
adds the relevant attribute modifier. For Light weapons, this is the
better of their Strength or Dexterity modifiers. For Medium and Heavy
weapons, this is their Strength modifier, and for Ranged weapons it's
Dexterity. Supernatural weapons or effects use whatever attribute seems
most appropriate to the effect.

This damage roll is then compared to the table below, and the given
amount of damage is suffered by the target. Against Godbound foes, this
damage is subtracted from their hit points. Against other opponents,
this damage is taken by the target's hit dice.

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Damage Roll                     Damage Taken
  [1 or less]{.CharOverride-7}    None
  [2 -- 5]{.CharOverride-7}       1 point
  [6 -- 9]{.CharOverride-7}       2 points
  [10 or more]{.CharOverride-7}   4 points
  ------------------------------- --------------

If the attack does more than one die of damage, they are all count
separately. Any modifier is applied to only one die of the attacker's
choice. Thus, a blast that does 5d8 damage a target would do from 0 to
10 points of damage, depending on the results of the dice.

If the damage a PC does is more than enough to kill the target, the
overflow can be applied to any other target in range of equal or worse
armor class. Thus, if there are four identical one hit die peasants in
melee and the hero rolls a 10 on the damage die of his two-handed sword,
all four would be killed in a single brutal round. This overflow effect
does not apply to area-effect damage that is inflicted on everyone
within an area. Only PCs inflict overflow damage, not NPC foes.

Some powers inflict damage dice "straight". Such dire dice do their
natural result in damage points, without using the table.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker008}Fray
Dice

A hero has a Fray die representing their casual blows, minor exertions
of divine power, and general fearsomeness. Each round of combat they can
roll their Fray die on their turn, even if they're occupied doing
something else. Most heroes have a Fray die of 1d8, though some gifts
can increase this. No attribute modifiers apply to this die.

The Fray die is compared to the damage chart, and that many points of
damage can be inflicted on a single
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker009}[lesser
foe]{.CharOverride-3} in sight. A lesser foe is a creature with equal or
fewer hit dice than the hero has levels. Thus, if the hero rolls a 6 on
the die while fighting the four peasants mentioned above, two of them
would be killed out of hand by the overflow damage. If fighting a
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker010}[worthy
foe]{.CharOverride-3} with more hit dice or levels than the Godbound has
levels, however, the Fray die is useless against them.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker011}Morale

NPCs aren't always enthusiastic about fighting demigods. Most creatures
have Morale scores ranging from 2 for arrant cowards to 12 for mindless
or fanatical foes. When the foes are given some reason to flee, they
roll 2d6; on a roll higher than their Morale, they retreat, surrender,
or otherwise stop fighting. The death of an ally is usually enough to
provoke a Morale check in ordinary people, as is the further loss of
half their allies or a display of fearsome supernatural might.

Death and Dying

Foes brought to zero hit dice are dead, unconscious, or subdued at the
assailant's discretion, if a choice is plausible. Most mortally-wounded
creatures take a few rounds to die; medical attention during that time
might save them on an attribute check by the healer. Godbound brought to
zero hit points are gravely wounded and helpless, and die from further
harm. If left for dead, they regain 1 hit point an hour later.

Divine Fury

When pressed to the brink of death a Godbound's desperation can drive
them to tap unknown reserves of celestial power. If brought to zero hit
points, a Godbound may choose to enter a [divine fury]{.CharOverride-2}.

The Godbound immediately gains hit points equal to half their maximum,
rounded up, and bonus Effort equal to their level. They are immediately
freed from any magical effect that is binding or constraining them,
whether mental or physical, and for the duration of the fury they cannot
be controlled or bound by magic.

The maximum duration of the fury is equal to the Godbound's level in
rounds. At the end of that time, the Godbound becomes utterly helpless
for five rounds. All of their gifts become inactive, they can take no
action, and they automatically fail all saves. If any foe capable of
harming them is still present they can be killed automatically by a
single attack. A Godbound brought to zero hit points during or
immediately after a divine fury dies instantly and cannot be revived;
their spirit is too weakened by their exertions to be restored.

A Godbound's fury depletes deep reserves of power. Once they have
exhausted their reserves, they must gain a new level of experience
before they can rage once again. NPC Godbound normally cannot enter a
divine fury, as they've already expended theirs during some past moment
of crisis.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker012}Healing
and Recovery

Heroes who survive a fray can regain lost hit points with rest. A full
day of recuperation in a safe, reasonably comfortable place will restore
all lost hit points for a Godbound. For a creature of lesser stamina, a
full day's rest will restore one lost hit die. Some Godbound may be able
to rest comfortably in circumstances impossible for others.

Godbound regain all committed Effort each morning, whether or not
they've had the opportunity to rest. They might elect to leave some
Effort committed if they've got a long-lasting gift they want to
maintain, but Effort spent on activating miracles or day-long
expenditures all comes back.

Some magical spells or other supernatural effects can restore lost hit
points or cure lingering maladies. If used to cure diseases, neutralize
poisons, lift curses, or otherwise remove afflictions from a subject,
these powers require no extra expenditure. If used to cure hit point
damage, however, the recipient must Commit Effort for the day. Such
magical healing taxes the reserves of the one being healed, and if they
cannot or will not Commit the Effort to receive it it does no good. If
used on a creature with no listed Effort, assume that the entity can
benefit from such healing once per day.

Magical healing rolls cure that many hit points of damage. If used on a
creature with hit dice instead, it heals that many hit dice of injury.

Holding Actions in Combat

Sometimes a hero might want to hold their action for the round, saving
it to respond to some impending peril. If the PCs know that the angelic
tyrant is going to vomit a stream of molten gold on them, for example,
the PC with the Wealth Word might want to wait and offensively dispel
the attack rather than merely protect their own person with a defensive
dispelling.

If a PC wants to hold their action until later in the round, they may do
so. They describe what they\'re waiting for and what they intend to do
when it happens. If what they\'re waiting for doesn\'t happen by the end
of the round, then they waste their action.

A PC can hold for a general sort of event, but they can\'t just wait
arbitrarily until they\'re ready to act. It\'s up to the GM as to
whether or not a particular set of conditions are adequately specific.

Conflicting Gifts

Most gifts are absolute in their effects; they simply work. Sometimes a
target will get to make a saving throw to resist, but a gift\'s effects
are usually automatic and inexorable. Sometimes, however, the GM might
find the PCs and the opposition using two gifts that clash in their
effects.

Defenses trump attacks. If a gift protects against something or inflicts
some hindrance on an attack, the defensive gift applies regardless of
the source of the attack. Thus, the Sword Word\'s [Unerring
Blade]{.CharOverride-3} gift is still probably going to miss against
Alacrity\'s [Untouchable]{.CharOverride-3} defensive gift.

For other clashes, roll an opposed attribute check using the most
applicable attribute and any relevant Facts. The contestant who wins by
the largest margin wins the contest. In the case of a tie, the PC wins.
If two PCs tie in their struggles, they can flip a coin. If the NPC
doesn\'t have listed attributes, the GM should just pick an attribute
check number that makes sense, given the NPC\'s nature and prowess.

Defeating Foes Non-Lethally

An enemy reduced to zero hit dice or hit points isn\'t necessarily dead
or mortally wounded. If the assailant doesn\'t want to kill the target
and the method they\'re using to attack can reasonably be non-lethal,
then the attacker can just declare the target stunned or subdued.

It\'s up to the GM as to whether the attack could plausibly be pulled
for a non-lethal result. A Godbound with the Sword Word could probably
wield a chainsaw in a nonlethal way, while a more pacifistic deity
probably shouldn\'t try to subdue people with a greataxe. Neither of
them are advised to try subdual with the Red Sword of the Bleeding
Emperor or a [Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} bolt from the Fire Word.

Some attacks might be assumed to be nonlethal unless otherwise desired,
such as ordinary tavern fisticuffs or sparring duels.

Instant Defensive Miracles

While the full details of defensive and offensive dispelling are
explained on page
[[26]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor022),
it\'s important to understand what dangers can be dispelled and what
dangers can\'t. Regardless of the type, defensive miracles always
require the defender to Commit Effort for the day.

Combatants can defensively dispel as an Instant action. They can only
dispel powers and gifts for which their own Words or abilities offer a
reasonable counter, and the player has to describe how they\'re using
their own Words to block or diffuse the incoming peril.

Only powers that directly affect the target can be dispelled. If the
enemy uses a gift or ability that boosts their own abilities, such as
giving them faultless accuracy or imbuing a blow with tremendous
strength, this gift can\'t be dispelled defensively. The attacker is
buffing themselves rather than targeting the victim directly.

Only the dispeller is protected from the incoming effect. A gout of
corrosive darkness might be defensively dispelled by a hero with the Sun
Word or averted by one with the Night Word, but only that hero is spared
the effect. His comrades next to him are affected normally.

Normal physical attacks or environmental hazards cannot be dispelled.
Someone with the appropriate Sword or Endurance Word might use a miracle
to mimic an Instant defensive gift against an incoming blow, but they
cannot simply dispel an oncoming axe to the head. Heroes who want to
slaughter a powerful supernatural foe are often better off boosting
their own weapon attacks rather than trying to wear it down with [Divine
Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} gifts that it can successfully dispel.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker013}Combatants
With Multiple Actions

Very powerful enemies may have more than one action a round, with some
having two, and the most tremendously potent having three. If you are
using the deluxe [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} rules with the guidelines
for mortal hero PCs, these exceptional mortals might also have extra
actions each round.

Each of these bonus actions can include both movement and a normal
action. Thus, a combatant with +10 to hit and a 30\' movement rate could
use both actions to strike twice and move up to sixty feet in one round.
If the combatant gets multiple attacks per action, they can make their
full attack sequence with each action.

Creatures with special powers must usually use up an action in order to
employ them. Thus, if some fearsome foe had three attacks at +12 to hit
and two actions in a round, it could use one of them to slash thrice at
a foe and another to trigger a special ability. In some cases, a
creature might have an On Turn or Instant gift or power, and these
abilities may be used just as often and in the same way as PCs use them.

While it is possible for heroic mortals and supernatural foes to get
multiple actions per round, there are very few ways for a Godbound hero
to do so. The Word of Alacrity has a few costly powers that allow an
extra action, but there are no easy or inexpensive ways for a divine
hero to act more than once per round.

This is intentional, and GMs should keep this in mind when coming up
with their own gifts and magical artifacts. Godbound have tremendous
flexibility and durability compared with mortal heroes or monstrous
foes. If a Godbound can reliably get more than one action a round, it\'s
all too easy for their pantheon to overwhelm the opposition with a
torrent of divine miracles and thunderous blows. Major enemies need
their bonus actions to help even out great disparity in actions per
round between them and an entire pantheon of Godbound. If the PCs have
them too, it can easily become an arms race.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer017 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor017}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker014}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor018}Saving
Throws

Can a hero throw off the venom that even now gnaws his heart? Can she
dive clear of the massive jade pillar as it plunges to the earth? Is he
able to resist the mental influence of the Uncreated abomination? To
find out, the hero must roll a saving throw. Some dark powers or grave
perils might explicitly allow a saving throw to resist their effect,
while at other times the GM might choose to allow one.

To roll a saving throw, the hero must roll 1d20 and compare it to their
most relevant saving throw type. If the roll is equal or higher than the
saving throw score, it's a success. A natural roll of 1 is always a
failure, and a natural roll of 20 always succeeds.

[Hardiness]{.CharOverride-3} is used for tests of their physical
endurance and bodily integrity, and is modified by the better of a PC\'s
Constitution or Strength modifiers. [Evasion]{.CharOverride-3} is for
challenges of agility and quick response, and is modified by the better
of a hero\'s Dexterity or Intelligence modifiers.
[Spirit]{.CharOverride-3} saves are made for magical threats or mental
influences that don't fall under one of the other headings, and are
influenced by the better of a hero\'s Charisma or Wisdom modifiers. When
in doubt, the GM picks a type for the saving throw.

PCs have a base saving throw in each category of 16 minus their
character level, minus the highest applicable attribute modifier. Thus,
a first level hero with a Constitution modifier of +1 and a Strength
modifier of -1 has a Hardiness saving throw of 14.

Monsters, non-player characters, and other creatures also may attempt
saving throws if necessary. Most foes will have their saving throws
listed in their combat statistics, but if a GM needs to determine a
score in a hurry, they can just count it as 15 minus half the creature's
hit dice, to a minimum of 5 or better to save. Creatures exceptionally
suited or unsuited to resisting a type of peril might gain a bonus or
penalty to the score ranging from -3 to +3.

Godbound and Saving Throws

Some gifts and other special powers only function on foes of equal or
fewer hit dice than the wielder has levels or hit dice. Others
automatically afflict weaker creatures, but allow stronger ones to make
a saving throw to resist them. Against these gifts, Godbound are always
treated as worthy foes, as if they had more hit dice than the user, even
if they would otherwise be susceptible.

Godbound and other major supernatural foes can also summon reserves of
strength in moments of dire need. If they fail a saving throw, a
Godbound can Commit Effort for the day to convert it to a success. A
hero might be forced to drop the Effort committed to defensive gifts in
order to do so.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer018 .Sidebar}
Saving Throws are a Privilege

Many otherwise-dire powers come with the chance to save in order to
resist them. Instant-death poisons, bodily transformations, being
digested into cursed blue slime, or falling prey to the whispered mental
influence of an Uncreated abomination might all grant the hapless victim
a saving throw. Similar save-or-lose powers created by a Godbound
hero\'s miracles should also grant the chance to save rather than
instantly lose the conflict.

The exception to this guideline is when the power targets a single
lesser foe. If a special ability or power is aimed at a single creature
with equal or fewer hit dice than the assailant has levels or hit dice,
they probably don\'t deserve a saving throw. Godbound and other mighty
creatures can summarily defeat such minor opposition with little or no
chance of failure.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer019 .Sidebar}
Hit Dice and Hit Points

In other old-school games, hit dice are usually rolled to determine a
foe\'s hit points. In [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}, this is not the case.
A foe can take a number of points of damage equal to their hit dice
before perishing.

So why use hit dice at all? Why not give everybody hit points? Because
when importing creatures and content from other old-school games, it\'s
easier to just record the creature\'s hit dice and give it an attack
bonus equal to that number. Hit dice also underline the difference
between mere NPCs and heroic PC demigods.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer020 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor019}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor020}Quick
Rule Reference

Attribute Checks

An attribute's check target is equal to 21 minus the attribute score. To
make an attribute check, roll 1d20 against the most relevant attribute's
check target. Add +4 to the roll if the hero has a Fact relevant to
their efforts, and apply a penalty if the task is pushing the limits of
human or heroic ability. Penalties shouldn't normally exceed -8. If the
roll is equal or greater than the check number, the check is a success.
If less, something goes wrong or an unexpected complication arises, as
Godbound very rarely simply fail at their efforts.

Don't roll attribute checks for divine gifts, miracles of the Words, or
tasks that fall within a hero's Facts or Words. Such efforts will always
be successful barring outside interference from a worthy foe.

Saving Throws

Roll 1d20 against a hero's most relevant saving throw type: Hardiness
for physical challenges, Evasion for tests of agility and reaction, or
Spirit to resist magic or mental influence not covered by another
category. If the roll is equal or greater than the score, the saving
throw is a success. A natural 1 always fails, and a natural 20 always
succeeds.

Medium armors apply a -4 penalty to one saving throw category of the
wearer's choice. Heavy armor applies it to two categories. Godbound and
major supernatural foes who fail a saving throw may Commit Effort for
the day to count it as a success instead.

Committing Effort

Godbound must Commit Effort to use many of their powers. Effort
committed for the day or for a scene may not be reclaimed earlier.
Effort committed for shorter durations may be reclaimed at any time,
whether or not it's the hero's turn. A hero who wishes to use a powerful
offensive gift or miracle might thus choose to reclaim the Effort
they're using to sustain a defensive ability, or may choose to abandon
the Effort they've committed to a gift in order to throw up a sudden
defense.

A divine miracle require heroes to Commit Effort for the day. If the
miracle mimics a gift that also would already require a day-long
commitment, two points must be committed instead.

All committed Effort is returned with each new morning, though the
Godbound might leave some Effort committed to gifts they want to
continue using.

Using Gifts and Miracles

Outside of combat or other time-sensitive situations, gifts may be used
whenever the Godbound desires to do so, granted they have enough free
Effort to commit to them.

During combat, Godbound may use Instant gifts at any time, whether or
not it's their turn to act. On Turn gifts may only be used during their
turn, but they do not count as actions and as many of them may be used
as the Godbound wishes. Action gifts count as the hero's action for the
round, and so only one can be used.

Miracles normally count as Instant, though attacks, offensive
dispellings, environmental changes, and other external effects count as
the invoker's action for the round.

Some gifts are Constant. These powers are always in effect, though some
have additional effects that can be triggered by Committing Effort.
Doing so is an Instant action unless specified otherwise.

Combat Rounds

Combat is measured in rounds, each one about six seconds long. Player
characters always act first unless surprised or ambushed, in which case
the ambushers gain a full round of action before the victims can
respond. After the PCs have acted, NPCs will then act in whatever order
the GM would prefer.

On their turn, a PC can move up to their full movement rate of 30 feet
for a normal human and take a single other action. This action might be
an attack, activating a gift, invoking an offensive miracle, moving
their movement rate a second time, or anything else that can be done in
about six seconds. Actions such as drawing a weapon, dropping an object,
or other such minor acts can be done as free actions.

Hitting and Rolling Damage

To hit a target, the attacker rolls 1d20 and adds their attack bonus and
the target's armor class. If the total is 20 or more, it's a hit. A
natural roll of 1 always misses and a natural 20 always hits.

The attack bonus for a player character is equal to their level plus the
attribute modifier appropriate to their weapon. For most melee weapons,
this is Strength, while ranged weapons use Dexterity. Light weapons use
the better of either modifier. Attacks using supernatural powers,
gift-imbued weaponry or divine marvels use whatever attribute seems most
pertinent to the effect.

To determine the damage the target takes, roll the weapon's damage die
and add the relevant attribute modifier. Compare the result to the table
below to find out how many points of damage are inflicted. Godbound take
this damage from their hit points. Other enemies subtract the damage
total from their hit dice.

If an attack happens to deal multiple dice of damage, each die is
counted separately, and any modifier is applied only to one die of the
attacker's choice. Thus, a bolt that does 5d6 damage will do between
zero and 10 points of damage to a victim.

If a hero does enough damage to kill a target, the excess can be applied
to any other foe within range of equal or worse armor class. Thus, if a
Godbound's sword strike does 4 hit dice of damage to a veteran warrior
with 2 HD, the blow kills the veteran and can also cleave apart his
comrade standing beside him, assuming his armor is no better. This
overflow does not apply to area-effect attacks that deliver damage to
each target in a zone. Only PCs do overflow damage.

  ------------------------------- --------------
  Damage Roll                     Damage Taken
  [1 or less]{.CharOverride-7}    None
  [2 -- 5]{.CharOverride-7}       1 point
  [6 -- 9]{.CharOverride-7}       2 points
  [10 or more]{.CharOverride-7}   4 points
  ------------------------------- --------------

Fray Dice

Godbound are dangerous foes, and can harm lesser foes automatically each
round with their 1d8 Fray die, representing casual blows and minor
exertions of divine power. They may do so even if they use their action
for other purposes that round. They may roll the die and apply the
table's damage to a single foe with equal or fewer hit dice than the
Godbound has levels. Overflow applies normally if the target dies.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer021 .Single-Column}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor021}Divine
Powers

Celestial Gifts and Mighty Theurgies
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer022 .Text-Frame}
Every Godbound is blessed by certain divine Words of Creation, ones
related to the divine fragments they bear. Simply possessing this
connection is enough to grant the hero the ability to call forth
miracles related to their powers, but they are also able to refine
certain gifts from these Words. These gifts are miracles that have been
sufficiently practiced and refined so as to be easy for the hero to
invoke. The gifts listed here are simply examples and guidelines. A hero
might develop numerous unique gifts of their own with the agreement of
the GM.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker015}Effort

Both gifts and miracles are powered by [Effort]{.CharOverride-3}. A
hero's Effort pool represents a blend of divine power, personal will,
and the physical energy necessary to wield mighty forces. A beginning PC
has 2 points of Effort and gains one more every time they advance a
level. Ordinary creatures normally have one point of Effort and no
abilities which require it, though heroic or supernatural foes may have
a larger reserve.

Gifts often require that Effort be
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker016}[Committed]{.CharOverride-3}
to them in order to use them. Usually, Effort is Committed only as long
as the power is in use. A gift that allows flight, for example, might
require the user to Commit Effort. They would have to spend a point of
it from their pool in order to fly, but could reclaim the Effort as soon
as they no longer needed the ability. A lingering curse on a foe might
also require Effort, with the blight lasting as long as the hero leaves
the Effort committed. Reclaiming Effort is instantaneous and may be done
at any time.

Some gifts require that Effort be committed for longer periods, such as
for a scene, or even for a full day. A
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker017}[scene]{.CharOverride-3}
simply means for however long the current event is happening. A fight is
usually one scene, as is an infiltration of a house, a debate at court,
the pursuit of a fleeing enemy, or other such action. Most scenes last
no more than fifteen minutes, though longer ones exist at the GM's
discretion. At the scene's end all Effort committed for that scene is
returned. Effort committed for a scene or for a day cannot be reclaimed
early.

Effort committed for a full day returns each morning, with or without
rest. This lengthy commitment is usually only for the most impressive
gifts or the wielding of unrefined miracles. Most of these powers create
a single sudden marvel that might last only a moment, but the Effort
remains committed until the hero can rest for an evening.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker018}Gifts

Gifts are refined miracles, either honed by long practice or an
expression of intuitive understanding. Like miracles, gifts are
enormously potent, and conventional sorcery cannot overcome or dispel
them. Thus, an illusion created with a gift of the Word of Deception
cannot be dispelled by mortal magic or revealed by mortal divinations.

Gifts come in two degrees of power: lesser and greater gifts. Lesser
gifts are extremely potent, but tend to affect only the hero and their
immediate surroundings. Larger-scale effects are possible, but are
usually more subtle, or involve sensing or communicating.

Even those heroes without a connection to the Word can learn versions of
its lesser gifts, provided they can explain to the GM how they\'re
shaping their own Words to create the effect. In some cases, this might
be so appropriate that the GM allows them to buy it as a gift of their
existing Words, while in other cases the effect might be so different
that the GM disallows it entirely.

Greater gifts are the pinnacle of the Word's powers, refining the raw
energy of a miracle into a marvel that can be used more readily by the
hero. Greater gifts can affect entire towns with devastating blights or
munificent blessings, or render the hero an unstoppable juggernaut to
lesser foes. Only a hero who is bound to the Word can master its greater
gifts.

Gifts have four types of activation:
[[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker019}]{.CharOverride-3}[Constant]{.CharOverride-3},
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker020}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker021}[On
Turn]{.CharOverride-3}, [Action]{.CharOverride-3}, and
[[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker022}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker023}]{.CharOverride-3}[Instant]{.CharOverride-3}.
Constant gifts are always functioning and require no Effort to activate
them, though some may have additional uses with Effort. On Turn gifts
can be activated at any time during the hero's turn and do not count as
their action for the round. Any number of On Turn gifts can be activated
or deactivated at once, provided the hero has enough Effort to fuel
them. Action gifts must be activated on the hero's turn and count as
their action for the round, thus only one can be used on any given
round. Instant gifts can be activated at any time, even in response to
an enemy's attack or action, or after dice have been rolled for an
attack or saving throw. Many defensive gifts are Instant, allowing the
hero to swiftly respond to a threat.

Gifts last as long as Effort remains committed unless specified
otherwise in the text. Thus, if a blessing says that Effort must be
committed for a scene, its aid lasts a full scene unless the gift says
differently.

Foes and Special Circumstances

Many gifts have effects that are only applicable to targets with equal
or fewer hit dice than the hero has character levels. Such targets are
known as
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker024}[lesser
foes]{.CharOverride-3}, whether friendly or hostile. Thus, a
newly-formed Godbound at the first level of experience counts all
creatures with one hit die as lesser foes, which includes the vast
majority of ordinary men and women. NPCs use their hit dice to determine
whether or not their enemies count as lesser foes to them.

[Godbound are never lesser foes]{.CharOverride-3}, even if they have
fewer levels than their assailant has hit dice or levels. Their
supernatural force is so great that the gifts that would ordinarily
brush aside a minor enemy or control a weaker creature cannot affect
them so easily.

Many gifts or miracles work automatically on lesser foes, or have
effects that weaker enemies can't possibly resist.
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker025}[Worthy
foes]{.CharOverride-3} are those enemies with more hit dice than the
Godbound has levels or the NPC has hit dice. Many gifts either don't
work on worthy foes or allow them to make saving throws to resist the
worst of their effects. Godbound are always worthy foes.

Powers that grant a saving throw allow the victim to realize that
something unnatural is happening to them if the saving throw succeeds
and they have some acquaintance with supernatural powers. Thus, a
mind-affecting gift of the Word of Command might be recognized as an
unnatural effect if the victim saves against it. If it fails, the
bewitched target would be oblivious. Of course, even if the victim
realizes something strange is happening they may not be able to connect
it with the Godbound or realize its true purpose.

Those gifts that apply to the Godbound and their
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker026}companions
usually apply to no more than a dozen people in total, plus any mounts
they might be riding. The companions need not be immediately adjacent to
the Godbound, but must be in the same general area. Some gifts may allow
the Godbound to affect larger numbers of allies.

Some gifts allow the wielder to use them as a weapon. The hero may use
the gift to empower their unarmed attacks or use it to mantle a physical
weapon they are using. Some such gifts can even be used at range,
allowing the Godbound to hurl bolts of energy or conjure damaging
effects on the target. If a weapon is sheathed in the gift's power, it
gains the gift's basic damage if that is higher than its own, but
retains any magical benefits or powers that the weapon might possess.

The hero can use any attribute that seems plausible to modify the
weapon\'s attacks or their unarmed use of such a gift. A hero who uses a
miracle of Command to empower their weapon, for example, might choose to
use Charisma as their relevant attribute for hit and damage rolls, with
conquered foes being reduced to stunned awe before them. Weapons
sheathed in an elemental gift's power may be treated as elemental damage
or physical damage at the wielder's discretion.

Some gifts allow the hero to inflict their Fray die on other foes.
Unless specifically noted otherwise only lesser foes can be harmed by a
Fray die. Thus, creatures of greater hit dice than the hero has levels
are normally not affected by such gifts.

Some gifts grant an "invincible defense" against a particular threat.
This leaves the PC entirely immune to all harm from that source, even
those attacks that might penetrate conventional immunities and wards.
This immunity extends to include the hero's possessions, clothing, and
any mount they might be riding at the time.

Some gifts or foes roll a
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker027}damage
die "straight". This means that when you roll the damage die, you don't
compare it to the damage table, you instead read its face value. Thus, a
1d10+2 blow read straight will do from 3 to 12 points of damage.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor022}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker028}Miracles

Sometimes a Godbound wishes to exert their powers in a way that doesn't
match a particular gift they possess. They can do so, but these miracles
are more draining than the easy proficiency of a gift.

To use a miracle, the hero first chooses an effect, describing the way
in which they use a Word to bring about the desired result. If the
effect seems reasonable and relevant to the GM, they may then commit
Effort to invoke the miracle. Effort committed to a miracle remains
committed for a full day, even if the miracle's effect is brief.

-   A miracle can mimic the effect of a gift of that Word, usually
    lasting no more than a scene. Subtle curses or blessings might be
    allowed to last longer at the GM's discretion. Full details of the
    effects that a miracle can produce are explained on page
    [[27]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor024).
-   A miracle can suppress another gift, if some explanation can be made
    of how the Word could counter the effect. For example, if a hero
    wished to temporarily nullify a Night gift of a villainous foe, they
    could use their Sun gift to explain how their purging radiance melts
    away the enemy's shadows. The enemy's gift ends immediately as if
    they had voluntarily ended it, and they can't activate it again
    until the miracle-worker's next round of action. This suppression is
    automatic, but applies to only one hostile gift at a time.
    Offensively dispelling a foe's powers this way counts as the hero's
    action for the round, but defensively dispelling a gift being used
    directly against the hero is an Instant defense. Gifts that augment
    attacks or buff the wielder can\'t be defensively dispelled.
-   A miracle can
    []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker029}dispel
    mortal magic or undo mortal curses if a plausible explanation can be
    made as to how the Word would apply. Unlike with hostile gifts, this
    dispelling is permanent.
-   A miracle can make some impressive effect or dramatic change in the
    immediate vicinity, out to a few hundred feet. This change is very
    temporary, but the consequences of it might linger. Such changes can
    apply penalties to foes for a scene's duration, or inflict about one
    hit die of damage to enemies around the hero, but such freeform
    divinity cannot instantly slay consequential foes. Lesser foes might
    suffer penalties such as the loss of a round's action or a -4 hit or
    saving throw penalty for the remainder of the fight. Worthy foes
    would get saving throws to resist such effects.

As a general rule of thumb, a miracle can do anything a gift can do, but
can't do it for as long and requires a longer commitment of Effort to do
it. Miracles should not produce long-lasting effects, and most of them
should create only a single dramatic, temporary change or result.

Miracles can be performed at any time and usually count as Instant
effects. If a miracle is being used as a weapon or other harmful effect,
it counts as an Action gift and can only be used on the Godbound's turn,
in lieu of their usual action. Offensive suppression of a target's
powers counts as an action, but defensive negation of a power being used
against a hero can be done as an Instant reaction. Thus, a Godbound of
the Sea who wanted to extinguish a fire angel\'s flaming shield would
have to do it as their action for the round. If the angel then hurled a
ball of searing light at the pantheon, the Godbound could Instantly use
a miracle to negate its effect on them, though their nearby allies would
still be scorched. If there's ambiguity in the situation, the GM decides
whether a dispelling is offensive or defensive.

The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker030}Words
of Creation

The following are a list of some of the more common Words found among
the Godbound. Others exist, and you might choose to design some of your
own for particular heroes.

Every Word comes with an intrinsic benefit for those who bond to it.
This is a natural ability that cannot be suppressed or dispelled, nor
does it require Effort to use it.

The lesser and greater gifts provided under each Word are not meant to
be exhaustive, but only an example of the sorts of powers that the Word
might grant. Some Words also overlap in their effects; a Godbound of
Wealth and one of Fertility might both be skilled at producing
agricultural goods, for example. GMs who wish to design new Words
shouldn't feel obliged to keep their powers wholly separate and unique.

Newly-made Godbound get six points with which to buy gifts from their
Words, with lesser gifts costing one point and greater gifts costing
two, while bonding a new Word costs three points. Every time they gain a
character level, they get two more points with which to buy more gifts.
They may save these points or spend them immediately.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor023}Universal
Gifts

Some effects are common enough that any Word might manifest them. Rather
than repeat them under each heading, they are provided here, all as
lesser gifts.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker031}Divine Wrath   [ (Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------

Commit Effort to the end of the scene. You smite a chosen foe within
sight with the energies of the Word, inflicting a 1d8 damage die per
character level. You are always immune to the wrath of your own bound
Words, as are other entities that wield similar powers. As a Smite
power, [Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} cannot be used two rounds in a
row.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker032}Corona of Fury   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------

Commit Effort to the end of the scene. You hurl a torrent of your Word's
energy at a group of foes, affecting all within a 30-foot radius of a
target point within sight of you. Each victim takes a 1d8 die of damage
for every two levels you have, rounded up. The fury can selectively
spare allies within the area, but the victims then get an appropriate
saving throw to resist the effect. You are always immune to the furies
of your own bound Words, as are other entities that wield similar
powers. [Corona of Fury]{.CharOverride-3} cannot be used two rounds in a
row.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker033}Effort of the Word   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your maximum Effort increases by one point. This gift can be taken once
for each Word you've bonded, but each purchase after the first costs two
gift points instead of one.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker034}Influence of the Word   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your maximum Influence increases by two points. This gift can be taken
once for each Word you have bonded.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker035}Excellence of the Word   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Choose one attribute score and raise it to 18. This excellence is
usually colored by the Word that grants it; Fire that grants Dexterity
might cause sparks to be left behind swift motion, while Earth that
grants Wisdom might lend a ponderous and steady tint to your thoughts.
This gift may only be taken once, regardless of how many Words your hero
has bound.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer023 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor024}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker036}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor025}What
Can Miracles Do?

Given the flexibility of the Words, it's inevitable that players are
going to want to throw out convenient marvels in play. The GM can
consult this quick list of guidelines to help judge the acceptability of
any particular divine feat. When rounding levels, round up.

Each of the guidelines below assumes that one Effort is Committed for a
day to conjure the miracle. Spending more Effort to get a "bigger"
miracle isn't possible. However, if the Godbound is mimicking a gift
that already Commits Effort for the day, the miracle requires two Effort
to be committed to trigger it.

Hurt One Target

On a single target, the Word can inflict a 1d8 die of damage per level
or two hit dice of the user, up to a 10d8 maximum. There is no saving
throw against this damage. Any Word can be used for this, but doing so
counts as a Smite action, and so can\'t be done two rounds in a row.

Hurt Several Targets

When blasting a group of targets in sight, a miracle can inflict a 1d6
die of damage per two levels or hit dice of the character, with a 10d6
cap. This can usually catch a single group of enemies within sight
range, but if there are allies mixed up and the Godbound wants to spare
them this wrath, then the targets get an appropriate saving throw to
resist the damage. As with hurting a single target, such a blast counts
as a Smite action.

[Gain Armor or Defenses]{.CharOverride-8}

If a Word doesn't have an Armor Class-boosting gift already listed, the
hero can improvise by explaining how their gift is protecting them.
Their natural Armor Class becomes 3 for the duration of the scene,
modified by their Dexterity but not by armor or shields.

If the Godbound is trying to gain immunity to a particular negative
environmental effect or type of attack, it has to fit the Word. A
Godbound of Fire who wants to fireproof his allies could reasonably do
so, but a Godbound of Command who wanted to do the same would be out of
luck. Such defenses last for only one scene for narrow immunities, or
one attack for weapon immunities or like generalities.

Resist an Attack or Effect

Most Words can't just negate an attack unless it fits with the theme of
the Word; Sword can be used to negate melee attacks, Bow can stop ranged
attacks, Endurance can shrug off almost anything physical in nature,
Knowledge can block mental damage, Fire can block freezing winds, and so
forth. This resistance can be triggered as an Instant effect, even after
the attack hits, but it only lasts for a single attack.

The same principle applies to resisting other supernatural effects; the
miracle can negate their effects on the Godbound if it fits the theme of
the effect. Note that a Godbound can always Commit Effort for the day to
count a failed saving throw as a success, whether or not their Words fit
the peril.

Hinder or Weaken an Enemy

Weak blights can affect a group, perhaps inflicting a -4 on hit rolls or
on saving throws. Strong blights can affect multiple lesser foes or
single worthy foes, and might halt movement, force hit and damage rolls
to be made twice, or even cost a round's actions. Most strong blights
should allow an appropriate saving throw to resist them.

Make Something

A miracle can conjure an appropriate object or entity. The Godbound can
call up enough to outfit their companions if need be, though the objects
shouldn't be larger than a wagon and should fit the Word used. Sword
could call up armor, Fire could conjure a torch or bonfire, Journeying
could summon riding horses, and Artifice or Wealth could conjure almost
anything. These objects last as long as they're needed, usually no more
than a day. Conjured entities are usually useless as combatants, but are
completely loyal to their Godbound creator.

If a conjured entity is meant to be a useful combatant, it should have
about twice as many hit dice as the Godbound has levels, up to a maximum
of 10, an armor class of 5, a hit bonus equal to its hit dice, two
attacks, and a 1d8 damage die for each attack. Full details of summoned
creatures are on page
[[162]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor166)
of the bestiary chapter.

Mimic a Gift of the Word

A hero bound to a Word can invoke its gifts as miracles. This is less
efficient than actually mastering the trick but it gives a Godbound a
great deal of flexibility with their powers. A hero can use a miracle to
mimic the effect of any gift of the Word. Such mimicked gifts last no
longer than a single scene, even if Constant. If triggering the gift
would normally Commit Effort for the day, two points are needed.

Change Something

A miracle can produce a change in line with the Word. These changes are
usually permanent if they involve a natural process, while impossible
transformations usually don't last more than a day.

Unwilling lesser foes don't usually get a saving throw against this
transformation. Worthy foes can make an appropriate saving throw to
resist the alteration, usually Hardiness if it's a physical change or
Spirit if it's mental. If the change would kill or totally incapacitate
a person, roll it as if it were a damage-causing miracle. If the damage
rolled wouldn't be enough to kill the target, the miracle's not able to
change them that drastically, either, and no harm or damage is done.

Create a Wall or Zone of Danger

Miracles to create a wall of fire, seal a victim in a stone block, or
otherwise create a hazardous zone take one round to form. If victims in
range move out of the zone that round, they take no damage. Otherwise,
damage is usually one point per level per round in the zone.

Solve A Problem

Some heroes will want to use their powers to just brush away an
immediate problem. This can be done in most cases, but these solutions
will usually only be temporary in nature. This might be fine for the
hero's purposes, but if they want to make permanent changes to a
situation they'll need to put in more effort to change the fundamental
factors involved.

Show Off

If the effect really doesn't have any combat benefit, lasting material
effect, or solve any immediate problem, the GM should just allow it. The
effect might have a benefit in impressing onlookers or making the hero's
life easier, but if they're just throwing around their powers as minor
expressions of divinity, you might not even charge them Effort. There's
no point in being a proto-god if you never get to show off.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer024 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor026}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker037}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker038}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor027}Creating
New Words and Gifts

It's normal and expected for GMs or players to want to develop new gifts
or entirely new Words for the Godbound of their campaign. A player might
have a character concept not suited by the existing choices, or have an
idea for a particular special ability they want their hero to possess.
It's not difficult to set up these new arts, but there are a few general
guidelines a GM will want to keep in mind when designing new gifts and
Words.

Creating New Words

Any divine portfolio could conceivably serve as the seed for a new Word.
Even very specific purviews can serve as the basis for a Word, such as
the tutelary god of a particular city, or the patron deity of a
particular type of art. Alternately, a Word might focus on a particular
mode of some larger power, such as the god of sea travel rather than one
of the general Sea.

There is no "niche protection" in Words. Just because one of them allows
certain tricks doesn't mean that no other Word should be able to do the
same thing, albeit perhaps in a different way. Don't worry about overlap
in abilities.

Instead, make sure that the Word isn't too general in its application.
It should be [about]{.CharOverride-2} something, and that something
should be specific enough that a single Word can't accomplish everything
that the hero might possibly want to do. For example, the Word of
Command is extremely flexible about controlling the minds of other
beings. It is unable to affect inanimate objects, however. A clever
player's suggestion that they should be able to "command" these things
by way of metaphor should be firmly denied, because that's just beyond
the Word's purview and makes it too generally useful.

If you're creating a new Word for your campaign just to have it, you'll
want to give it six lesser gifts and three greater gifts. Don't
replicate universal gifts with these choices. If the Word can be used to
deal direct damage, it should be different from a simple [Divine
Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} copy. Maybe it does less damage but has a
secondary effect, or perhaps it does more but requires a special
circumstance.

If you're creating a new Word because a player wants to have it, let the
player come up with the gifts. Presumably they have some idea of the
sort of things they want their hero to be able to do, things that can't
be easily done with the existing Words. They don't need to come up with
the full nine gifts for the Word, just those that they want to have from
the beginning or know they'll want to attain as they gain experience.

Give the new Word an intrinsic ability that fits its nature. Words that
focus on an element or environment should grant immunity to its inherent
dangers. Others might boost an ability score to 16, or to 18 if the
score is already that high. If that's the case, consider allowing the
Godbound to choose from two thematically-suitable ability scores so as
to give them a little variety in their choice.

Word abilities are a good place to put those knacks or tricks you'd
expect to be intrinsic to every Godbound bound to the portfolio. Be
careful not to simply make the ability a weaker version of some gift in
the Word, because that cheapens its uniqueness. It's possible to create
a gift that amplifies or improves the Word's natural ability, but this
gift should require that the Word be bound in the first place.

Actually creating a Word's gifts can be a little tricky. How can you
tell when a gift is a good one that won't disrupt the campaign or prove
too weak or limited to ever be used?

Creating New Gifts

Start with the existing gifts as cues and examples. Indeed, you might
just lift them entirely if the Word you're creating is a blend of
existing portfolios. A Word of the Moon, for example, might have several
Night gifts on its list, along with new gifts that emphasize madness,
wolves, silver, and the night sky.

When making gifts, use the existing ones as templates. If you're giving
the Word a gift that allows a natural Armor Class of 3, you can see how
other Words all offer a small side-effect benefit along with the armor
class, and choose something to fit your new Word. In another example,
gifts that increase the user's weapon damage die to 1d10 always have
their own side-perk as well, because otherwise it's a limited
improvement over simply swinging a very large weapon.

Gifts that are Constant should usually add new abilities or perks to the
hero rather than simply adding a bonus to existing scores. A gift that
just adds +4 to hit rolls is a boring gift, and worse, it's a gift that
almost everyone with the Word will feel like they have to take, because
it's so widely useful in every combat. Gifts that just increase numbers
should be used very sparingly.

Gifts that are Instant should usually be defenses or action boosts of
some kind. Instant defenses have the great advantage that they can be
triggered after the peril has already happened. Because of this, don't
hesitate to make them expensive to use; scene-long Effort commitments
are a fair price for these defenses. Instant boosts or special effects
for an attack can also be triggered after the attack hits or after the
provoking situation happens, so they can also be dear to activate.

Gifts that are On Turn are usually boosters for an action, giving it
some special effect or allowing the Godbound to do something unusual
with their turn's movement or action. On Turn gifts have to be activated
before the hero does something, so their costs should be less.
Committing Effort for as long as the boost is in effect is a good
choice, with exceptionally powerful boosts requiring a scene-long
commitment that can't be taken back early.

Gifts that are Actions take up the hero's action for the turn, and so
they should be something impressive. It might be a bolt of divine wrath,
a translocation of allies on the field, a suppression of enemy powers,
or something else useful enough to make it worth giving up a round's
action to accomplish. Many of these gifts should have no Effort cost at
all, because the character is paying with their action for the turn. If
you don't want to see the hero spamming this ability too often in a
single fight, make it Commit Effort for the scene. If this is a power
that's notably stronger than usual, one that the PC should be reluctant
to use lightly, it should Commit Effort for the day.

Don't be afraid to have gifts that just [work]{.CharOverride-2}, with no
saving throw or ability check involved. Against lesser foes most powers
should be automatic in their success. Against worthy foes, a saving
throw should be allowed, and some particularly overwhelming or
conflict-ending powers might not work on them at all. Most major
opponents have the ability to spend Effort to succeed at a saving throw,
so even a save-or-die power won't necessarily bring them down too
quickly, though it will wear away at their Effort reserves.

Lesser gifts should affect one situation in the Godbound's presence.
They shouldn't have particularly lasting or far-reaching effects unless
that's an intimate part of the Word. Greater gifts can have much more
pronounced effects, ones that might last indefinitely or affect much
larger areas than the hero's immediate surroundings.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer025 .Sidebar}
Smite Powers

Some gifts or miracles blast a target with a direct surge of divine
fury, scourging them with the power of the gods. While impressive, a
Godbound can\'t channel such energies continuously. You can\'t use a
gift or miracle with the
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker039}Smite
keyword two rounds in a row, even if you\'re an NPC with multiple
actions per round.

Gifts that augment an attack or deal modest damage to large numbers of
foes aren\'t generally Smite attacks. Instead, the keyword is meant to
keep players from pouring all of their Effort into continuous heavy
blasts, rather than more creative combat.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer026 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker040}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor028}Alacrity

The Word of swiftness and impossible grace, Alacrity grants miracles of
haste to the hero who possesses it. Miracles of its power might involve
completing a particular task in but moments, evading some
otherwise-inescapable peril, or responding to an event before its
enactor can even begin. Alacrity is not Journeying, however, and its
movement tends to be restricted to a single particular place or a short
distance rather than swift transit between far-flung locations.

Heroes with the Alacrity Word cannot be surprised. They may increase
their Dexterity to 16, or to 18 if it's already 16 or higher.

Lesser Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker041}All Directions as One   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You can navigate vertical or overhanging surfaces as if they were flat
ground. You can pass through rough terrain effortlessly. You have an
invulnerable defense against being pushed or made to fall.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker042}Flickering Advance   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort to scene end. Instantly reach any location you can see
with your unaided sight out to the horizon, which is usually about three
miles away for a character standing on flat terrain. From a high
elevation, the maximum range is ten times as far.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker043}Mist on Water   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort to scene end. Until the end of your turn, you may ignore
all solid matter with your movement, provided you end up in a location
you can physically occupy. You can't affect the world during this
impossibly fast dash but you have invincible defenses against all
non-magical forms of harm. If you end up in a solid object at the
turn\'s end, you\'re ejected from it harmlessly to the nearest empty
space.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker044}Storm Breaks   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Before the first round of every combat or time-sensitive circumstance,
you may Commit Effort for the scene to get one free bonus round before
anyone else acts. Two heroes using this gift roll opposed Dexterity
attribute checks to see who takes their action first.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker045}Swifter Than The Sun   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your movement rate is twice as fast as your fastest
pursuer or quarry, to a minimum of 60 feet per move action. If chasing
quarry that has divine gifts that allow them to outrace pursuers, the
participant with more hit dice is faster, with ties resolved by a coin
flip.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker046}Walk Between the Rain   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your natural AC is 3. You cannot be hit by anything not driven by a
purpose unless you allow it; falling objects will never strike you
unless some will to harm you set them in motion. Traps meant to hit an
intruder have a chance to hit you. Armor and shields don\'t benefit you.

Greater Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker047}All-Encompassing Presence   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Twice during your turn, as an On Turn action, you can be
anywhere within 100 feet of your current location provided you could
conceivably move to that point under your own power.

  --------------------- ------------------------------------
  Faster Than Thought   [(Smite) Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------- ------------------------------------

Commit Effort to scene end when anyone visible declares an action. You
get a free round's action and movement before they can perform their
act. If their desired action is rendered impossible by yours, their
action is wasted. As a Smite gift, this can\'t be used two rounds in a
row.

  ------------- ----------------------------
  Untouchable   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort to scene end to become tremendously difficult to hit until
the start of your next turn. Physical attacks hit you only on a natural
20, even those attacks from foes that would normally hit automatically.
As an Instant gift, you may use it after an attack roll.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer027 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker048}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor029}Apotheosis

The Word of Apotheosis is a special Word. It cannot be selected as a
bound Word by a Godbound, nor does it have any miracles of its own
associated with it. Instead, it represents those special abilities
suitable to a budding deity, automatically gained as they grow in might.

Many apotheosis powers apply only to [worshipers]{.CharOverride-3}. A
worshiper is an intelligent being who knowingly and willingly pledges to
worship a Godbound or other deific Word-bound entity, such as a parasite
god or Made God. The worshiper may be coerced by circumstances or
threats, but cannot be magically compelled or induced. A worshiper may
be a servant of only one deity at a time. Those who pledge to a pantheon
have their worship assigned to the member god most suited to their
nature, whether or not the worshiper is aware of it. Worshipers can turn
against a god, but they can\'t renounce their state. The most they can
do is find a new god to accept their loyalty.

Gods always know whether or not a person is a worshiper of theirs,
though they have no automatic insight into whether or not they are an
[obedient]{.CharOverride-2} worshiper. They may reject a worshiper at
any time, or accept a change of allegiance from another god\'s devotees.
A god is not automatically made aware of a person\'s choice to worship
them, though they can tell of that fact with a glance at the new
worshiper.

Gods always have custody of the souls of their devotees. They may damn
their faithful dead to Hell at their will, but otherwise, the souls of
the dead hover unseen and sleeping in the presence of their god, or are
dispatched to the divinity\'s paradise. A soul unsheltered by a paradise
will fall into Hell if their patron deity is slain.

The only way to gain the gifts of apotheosis is through gaining
character levels. They may be used as given, but the Word does not grant
miracles, nor can miracles be used to mimic its powers.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker049}Receive the Incense of Faith   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Gained at second level, the Godbound becomes capable of receiving
worship from mortal believers and can begin forming their own cult.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker050}Sanctify Shrine   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Gained at third level, the Godbound's worshipers can now sanctify
temples and shrines to their deity. When properly consecrated, the
Godbound can choose to perceive anything going on within their
precincts, though they must intentionally choose to watch. They can
target a gift or miracle at any person within the sacred grounds at the
usual costs in Effort. Such a marvel is free the first time the Godbound
so acts in a day, but each successive wonder requires the Godbound to
Commit Effort for the day. Properly sanctifying a shrine requires rites
and components costing Wealth equal to the Godbound\'s level, with
increases in their level requiring additional expenditures. If the
shrine is desecrated, it must be reconsecrated at the full cost.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker051}Smite the Apostate   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Also at third level, the Godbound can instantly kill an offending
worshiper or afflict them with some debilitating suffering appropriate
to their Words. This torment lasts as long as the Godbound desires. If
another god accepts the worshiper, however, the curse is lifted.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker052}Hear Prayer   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

At fourth level, the Godbound is capable of hearing the prayers of their
faithful. These usually are a subconscious sussurus of petitions, but
they can specifically "listen" for particular topics or people if they
wish, becoming alerted when those topics arise or those people address
them. The Godbound can communicate with their faithful during their
prayers, though this inward voice is subtle and does not compel
obedience.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker053}Perceive the Petitioner   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

At fifth level, the Godbound can see a particular worshiper and their
surroundings with an action\'s focus, knowing everything about their
immediate situation that the worshiper knows. This doesn't grant deep or
subtle knowledge of the situation, but it's enough to make their current
circumstances clear.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker054}Mark of the Prophet   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

At sixth level, the Godbound can consecrate specific worshipers as
favored disciples or high priests. One disciple may be chosen for each
level of the Godbound, but only one high pontiff can be chosen. If
you\'ve access to the deluxe version of [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} and
the mortal creation rules, the disciples instantly become heroic mortals
of a level equal to half their patron\'s level, rounded up and the high
priest becomes a heroic mortal of the Godbound\'s level. Both usually
take talents reflective of their patron\'s portfolio, including a gift
or two. If the mortal hero rules are unavailable, treat the disciples as
Skilled Mages or Major Heroes from the mortal section of the bestiary
chapter, and the high priest as a lesser Eldritch. This consecrating
process takes only a moment, but the consecration cannot be taken from
the acolyte until they are dead, even if they later leave their god\'s
service.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker055}Attend the Faithful   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

At seventh level, the Godbound can manifest before a praying worshiper,
instantly appearing before them no matter how far away the divinity may
be, even from a distant realm. This manifestation lasts no longer than a
scene, however, before the Godbound returns to their original location
and cannot use this gift again for a day.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker056}To Bless the Nations   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

At eighth level the Godbound can selectively bless or blight the
fortunes of a faction that contains a substantial number of their
followers. If the faction has a number of worshipers present equal in
number to a group of one Power size smaller, the Godbound can
selectively add or subtract 2 from any action die roll they take. Thus,
if a city of Power 2 had a Power 1 village\'s worth of faithful among
them, they would be subject to the Godbound\'s influence. The Godbound
must be aware of the effort the faction is making to influence the roll,
but usually only the most subtle and secretive actions can escape the
notice of such a large number of worshipers and their prayers.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer028 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker057}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor030}Artifice

This is the Word of crafters, builders, and devisers of wondrous
creations. Some Godbound express their affinity through a particular
form of crafting, such as blacksmithing or shipbuilding, while others
are patrons of a broader range of creative labor. Even focused artisans
can use their powers generally, however. Miracles of Artifice involve
the creation, command, repair, or destruction of physical objects.

Heroes with the Artifice Word can create any non-magical object a normal
man can carry as a round's action, using whatever materials are to hand.
While the ensuing creation may look odd, and any \"foodstuffs\" are
inedible, it functions and lasts as well as a normal object of its type
and usual substance. The hero's crafting efforts for a day count as 100
laborers per character level when an estimate is needed.

Lesser Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker058}Faultless Repair   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You can fix anything with the available materials and tools. Up to a 10
x 10 x 10 foot cube per level worth of objects or constructions can be
made like new each round, provided it is not completely destroyed. Every
form of rot, decay, damage, and corruption is fixed, even for
perishables such as foodstuffs. If repairing magical or enchanted
things, Effort is Committed for the scene with each use of the gift.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker059}Command the Wheels   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. You can seize control of any visible vehicle, mechanism,
door, or other object with moving parts up to the size of a small ship.
If the item was created by you, there is no size limit on what can be
controlled. While the Effort remains committed, the object will function
exactly as if it were being manipulated, driven or piloted by you. Each
new directive requires an action, and worthy foes can save versus Spirit
to negate the gift for items they're using.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker060}Hammerhand   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Every weapon or unarmed attack you use rolls at least a
1d10 damage die and is treated as a magic weapon. Against artificial
constructs or inanimate things, this damage roll is read straight.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker061}Mark the Maker   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

With an action's careful inspection, you understand the purpose and
operation of any crafted object, magical or mundane. You also gain a
brief vision of each person who substantially helped in its creation,
and a short description of what they contributed to it.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker062}Ten Thousand Tools   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your natural gifts of creation are augmented. Instead of requiring a
full round to create a portable mundane object, you may do so as an On
Turn action, as part of whatever action you take. This object may be a
permanent creation or allowed to disappear afterwards at your
discretion. Your daily labor on projects is worth 1,000 laborers per
level. This gift is of no use to a Godbound who has not bound this Word.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker063}Transmuter   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene and turn one 10 x 10 x 10 foot cube of
material per hero level from one physical substance into another. Items
being used or held by a creature cannot be changed. If the effect is
used to somehow harm targets, they take a 1d6 damage die for every two
character levels of the hero, rounded up. If the substance being created
is rare or precious, Effort must be committed for the day. Extremely
rare and magical substances cannot be created this way, though mountains
of gold can be fabricated. See the Wealth Word for limits on the use of
this newfound treasure, as it is all too easy to inflate a region's
mundane economy into chaos.

Greater Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker064}Maker's Eyes   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

As an action, you may instantly perceive the area around any object
you've created as if you were there, seeing and hearing all around you.
If you Commit Effort for the scene, you may take one action with the
object as if you were present to manipulate it. If you choose a specific
location to focus on, you see through the nearest valid object.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker065}Perpetual Perfection   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------

Everything you make is flawless and impervious to normal decay and use.
Only intentional efforts at destruction have any chance of ruining them.
The weapons and armor you create count as magical items, ones capable of
harming supernatural foes and granting a +1 to hit and damage rolls for
mortal wielders. You and other Godbound are too mighty to benefit from
this hit and damage bonus.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker066}Reverence of Steel   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Any clothing or armor you make for yourself gives you an AC of 3 with no
saving throw penalties. When you make a suit specifically for another,
any saving throw penalties are one class lighter; none for medium armor,
and only one saving throw penalized for heavy armor. As an Instant
action, Commit Effort for the scene to negate one hit you receive from a
manufactured or crafted weapon.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer029 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker067}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor031}Beasts

The Word of the animal realm, gifts of the Beast may be used on any
natural or magical animal, though not creatures fashioned entirely of
sorcery or impossible artifice. Most creatures of human intelligence do
not qualify as beasts, though some exceptionally primal or savage
entities might be treated as such. Miracles of the Beast Word involve
adopting traits of animals, impressing these traits on others, full or
hybrid shapeshifting, commanding beasts, or calling forth animals.

Some powers grant the user the full or partial shape of an animal, or
allow them to transform another. If used as a curse, the hero may
inflict the animal's intellect on the target or allow them to retain
their own mind in their new shell. If used as a blessing or a personal
transformation, the original mind is retained, albeit with an
instinctive awareness of how to use the beast's natural abilities.
Shapeshifting rules are described in detail on page
[[160]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor164).
If using a creature\'s natural weaponry to attack, small but dangerous
creatures use a 1d6 damage die, wolf- or bear-sized ones use a 1d8
damage die, and larger creatures use a 1d10 damage die. Thus,
transforming mortals into fierce beasts wouldn\'t actually improve their
prowess, but would only change their outward appearance and give them
the natural locomotion of the beasts. While the gifts here don\'t
address it, other miracles or gifts of the Beast Word might be able to
grant special abilities or qualities of an animal\'s form for additional
Effort.

Heroes with the Beast Word can speak to animals. Unintelligent beasts
will always comply with requests that aren\'t unnatural to them.

Lesser Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker068}Distant Howl   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You can communicate from afar with any animal whose
location you know to within a mile. You can borrow their senses if they
permit it. Animals who have spent at least a week in your presence can
be reached wherever they are.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker069}Eyes of the Cat   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You have supernally-keen senses; you can see in perfect darkness, hear
perfectly any noise within a hundred yards, and track by scent.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker070}Link of Unity   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You can bond with an animal, linking it as an extension of your spirit
and allowing sense-sharing and communication. It uses its normal
statistics, but its attacks are treated as magical weapons and its hit
dice are twice your level. If it dies, it vanishes, but it can be
summoned back by Committing Effort for the day. It can be teleported to
your side for the same cost. Only one animal can be bound at a time, and
humans bound with [Conquer the Beast Within]{.CharOverride-3} must be
normal mortals.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker071}Red in Tooth and Claw   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You have or can instantly manifest natural weaponry that
does 1d10 damage and counts as a magic weapon. Against natural or
magical beasts, these talons or fangs always strike against AC 9 as they
effortlessly carve through the hides or scales of these foes.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker072}Scent the Prey   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort to gain an intuitive awareness of the locations and types
of all beasts within a mile radius. You may telepathically summon any of
them to come to you as quickly as they can safely do so. Magical or
intelligent beasts can refuse to come if they so choose.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker073}Untamed Will   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. While committed, no external magic or compulsion can make
you do or feel anything contrary to your wishes. You may invoke this
gift even after failing a save or being struck by a mental effect.

Greater Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker074}Conquer the Beast Within   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

When you defeat a foe in combat, reducing them to zero hit dice, you may
choose to subdue them if using a non-lethal attack as described on page
[[160]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor164).
Such a subdued victim revives with 1 hit die and forever afterwards is
subject to your Beast gifts as if they were an animal.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker075}Lord of the Wild   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Animals instinctively serve and obey you even to the death, carrying out
commands as if they had a human intellect. Magical or intelligent beasts
get a Spirit saving throw and cannot be commanded to act in a way that
seems suicidal to them or completely against their nature.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker076}Many-Skinned Mantle   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Adopt the shape of any beast or hybrid, natural or magical. Alternately,
transform a visible living creature into a natural beast; Commit Effort
until the end of the day to affect a worthy foe, who also gets a
Hardiness save to resist. If used as a blessing a human target can end
the change at will. Those cursed with a change can't be turned back by
anything short of another gift or similar powerful dispelling.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer030 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker077}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor032}Bow

The Bow Word includes all divinities of ranged combat, whether with bow,
hurled spear, pistol, rifle, thrown dagger, or a flung lightning bolt.
Heroes with the [Omnipresent Reach]{.CharOverride-3} gift may not
actually use a physical weapon at all, instead hurling bolts of some
appropriate energy. Such bolts may do elemental damage if the hero is
aligned with such Words, or they might be physical blasts of concussive
divine force.

Miracles of the Bow involve impossibly accurate damage delivered over
enormous distances or the cursing and condemning of another's attempt at
a ranged attack. Note that the benefits granted by gifts of the Bow
apply only to projectiles and other weapons or bolts called forth by the
gifts of this Word. They don't apply to other ranged attacks from other
Words or to magic that just happen to be delivered at range, such as the
[Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} gift allowed to all Words.

Heroes with the Bow Word never run out of normal ammunition. They may
instantly call ranged or throwing weapons they\'ve used to their hands
over any distance, and their ranged weapon attacks never harm any target
they did not intend to hurt. Their ranged attacks always count as
magical for purposes of overcoming defenses.

Lesser Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker078}Bar the Red Descent   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You have an invincible defense against normal projectiles
and can take no more than 1 point of damage per hit from magical ones.
Only actual weapons such as arrows, bullets, spears, and trebuchet rocks
are affected by this, not spells or magical effects.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker079}Bolt of Invincible Skill   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

You always hit an unaware or inanimate target, no matter how small or
how far under cover it may be. Optionally, you may Commit Effort to the
end of the scene to ensure that your current or next ranged attack does
maximum damage and hits on anything but a natural roll of 1.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker080}Feathered Tempest   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Against lesser foes, you always hit with ranged attacks.
You can spread any overflow damage to any other targets in range subject
to this gift.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker081}None Beyond Reach   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Your ranged attacks have no maximum range provided you can see what
you're shooting at with your natural sight or know its location to
within ten feet. This ability extends only to the same realm as the one
you are currently inhabiting.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker082}Omnipresent Reach   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your ranged weapons have a maximum range as far as your natural line of
sight. Your missile weapons always do at least 1d10 damage and are
treated as magical weapons. Even without a bow or gun, you may cast
bolts of force or conjured weapons for 1d10 damage. The pistols and
rifles of the Bright Republic work for you even in the absence of an
etheric node\'s stabilizing effect.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker083}The Seeking Flight   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Choose a visible target and Commit Effort to the end of the scene. Your
ranged attacks seek them out regardless of range, treat them as AC 9,
and completely ignore cover provided there is at least some path for
your arrow to reach them.

Greater Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker084}Inexorable Shaft   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your ranged attacks strike with tremendous force, always
doing their maximum damage on a hit. Your projectiles can penetrate any
thickness of non-magical materials in order to pierce the cover that
shields a target, though their armor applies as usual.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker085}Lord of That Which Falls   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Redirect any ranged weapon attacks in your presence, with
their attack roll applied against the new target. Worthy foes may only
have their attacks redirected if they\'re shooting at you. Projectiles
may be redirected at any target, though a single victim can be targeted
by no more than one attack per round this way. Subjects who have also
bound to the Bow Word are immune to this power, as are other divinities
affiliated with the bow.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker086}Rain of Sorrow   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Against Mobs, the damage dice of your ranged weapon
attacks are rolled straight and add your level. Thus, a 4th level
Godbound firing a 1d10 weapon with a +2 attribute bonus would inflict
from 7 to 16 hit dice of damage against a Mob. Against targets not
grouped into a Mob, you may roll your Fray die against every applicable
foe in sight each round.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer031 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker087}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor033}Command

The Word of Command speaks of obedience, leadership and rule. Godbound
of Command can compel the submission of others to their will and the
acceptance of their rulership, but they cannot touch the hearts of those
they command. While enthralled subjects will carry out orders
meticulously and rationally, they will not exert their own initiative
unless they agree with the Godbound\'s desires.

Heroes with the Command Word may set their Charisma score to 16, or 18
if it's already 16 or higher. They may communicate with any intelligent
creature, understanding them and being understood in turn. Their
commands are always correctly understood, though obedience will depend
on their eloquence or the use of their gifts.

Lesser Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker088}Guards! Seize him!   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Up to a Small Mob worth of minions or a half-dozen individual retainers
can be made to appear in the current location, provided they\'re within
ten miles of the Godbound. Only formally-pledged followers of the
Godbound can be summoned, and they can\'t be summoned to any place they
could not practically reach under their own power. The summoned
retainers appear wherever they would most logically enter, the
Godbound\'s powers having caused them to hasten to answer the summons
before it was even given.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker089}Know the Inner Truth   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Understand the true motivations and
intentions of any conversational partner, expressed by the GM in a few
sentences. Worthy foes get a Spirit saving throw to conceal the truth.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker090}Lieutenant\'s Wisdom   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort before giving an order to a person or group in your
service. While the Effort remains committed, you can spend an action to
borrow the senses of any single member of the group or to communicate
telepathically with any or all of them, and they can contact you. A
subject can break this bond, but you are immediately aware of it. The
effect ends when the Effort is reclaimed or the order is fulfilled.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker091}Lines of Rule   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

You can spot the true leader in any group or social context. In
addition, you may Commit Effort; a group of NPCs who are lesser foes
will instinctively obey you as if you were their superior or employer.
If the strangeness of this is brought to their attention by
circumstances or those unaffected, they get a Spirit saving throw.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker092}Soldier\'s Faithful Heart   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

A visible creature of equal or fewer hit dice than your level who freely
pledges loyalty to you finds their oath totally binding. Only magical
coercion can force them to disobey or betray you until you release them
from the effect, even with suicidal or unnatural orders. This gift
can\'t affect more than one hundred people per character level in total.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker093}Thousand Loyal Troops   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. A visible NPC immediately becomes cooperative toward you,
doing for you all they'd do for a superior or employer. Those who are
worthy foes get a Spirit save to resist this effect. The cooperativeness
lasts even after the Effort is reclaimed, provided the compliance is not
abused or wholly improbable.

Greater Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker094}Bearer of the Scarlet Crown   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your legitimacy as a ruler is unshakable. You have an intuitive
awareness of all publicly-known major events in groups or communities
you rule or administer, and can communicate your will to your viceroys
and officials at any time, though they cannot answer directly. You gain
an extra free point of Dominion every month, though you can only spend
these points on your own lands or ruled organizations. New Godbound
don\'t start the game with any stockpile of points, however.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker095}Invincible Iron General   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

All NPC soldiers serving under you gain +1 hit die, a hit bonus equal to
your level, and a Morale of 11. Your will is automatically known by all
your lieutenants and you always know the location, condition, and
general activities of all military units that accept your command.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker096}Thrall-Making Shout   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and give a command. If directed at a group,
all lesser foes up to a Vast Mob in number instantly obey anything short
of a suicidal order or a command not to defend themselves from obvious
peril, provided they are not already engaged in combat against the
Godbound. Obedience to this single order lasts for the scene. If
directed at a single target not already fighting the Godbound, anything
can be demanded of them until the Godbound releases them. Worthy foes
get a Spirit saving throw to resist the control.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer032 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker097}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor034}Death

Death is known to all that is mortal, and this Word gives command over
this inevitable fate. Its miracles avert or bring about death, reveal
details about a death, rule the unquiet dead, or create restless undead.

Heroes with the Death Word may command undead in their presence as an
action, ordering up to one Mob of any size. Greater undead get a Spirit
saving throw to resist, and cannot be commanded to self-destruct. As an
On Turn action, they also know the details of what, where, and how
anything died or is dying within 100 feet of them.

Lesser Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker098}Keeper of the Graves   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

You learn exactly where every corpse, undead or fragment of remains are
within 200 feet and their identity in life. You can tell exactly how
they died as if you had observed their death personally. If you Commit
Effort you have an invincible defense against lesser undead.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker099}Mantle of Quietus   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. To assail you brings death. Any lesser foe
that tries to physically harm you suffers 1 point of damage before their
attack is resolved, with Mobs taking a 1d20 normal die. Foes with
multiple attacks per round suffer the damage only once per round.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker100}Pale Crown Beckons   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. You can call up undead, summoning parts
instantly from the nearest source if necessary. A single greater undead
of hit dice no more than twice your level is called, or one Small Mob of
1 HD lesser undead is created for each three levels you have, rounded
up. A corpse made into a greater undead must not have received funeral
rites or been dead more than a month. The undead are loyal, but dissolve
when you use this gift again. Summoned entities or Mobs can be preserved
indefinitely for 1 Dominion point each.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker101}Scythe Hand   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. There is death in your gaze or your blade, which you may
use as a magic weapon. It has a 1d10 damage die and a 200 foot range.
This attack always does at least 1 point of damage against living
creatures or undead, even if the hit roll misses.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker102}White Bone Harvest   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. As an action, you may instantly destroy any
hostile lesser undead in sight provided they are lesser foes. Other
undead in sight suffer your level in points of damage, tripled for Mobs.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker103}Withholding the Mercy   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Those reduced to zero hit dice or hit points within 200 feet of you
automatically stabilize or die as your wish. If you desire it, willing
living creatures at zero HD or hit points around you may continue to act
for as many rounds as you have levels before they unavoidably fall dead.

Greater Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker104}No Release   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort and choose a visible target. They simply cannot die until
you reclaim the Effort. If reduced to zero hit dice or hit points they
will be incapacitated for an hour before reviving with one hit point. If
their body is destroyed or widely scattered, they will exist in a
perpetual haze of blind agony until magic or restorative miracles are
used to gather the corpse parts, or until the Effort is reclaimed. A
Godbound cannot use this power on their own person.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker105}Reaping Word   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene and choose a target at any range. A gesture
suffices if you can see the target, otherwise you must use a name they
consider their own true name. Lesser foes drop dead and cannot be
revived without your permission. Worthy foes require the Effort be
committed to the end of the day and are allowed a Hardiness saving throw
to resist. Furthermore, worthy foes must be injured in order to let
Death reach them; even a single point of damage is enough.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker106}Summons to Day   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. Any normal mortal creature can be called back
from death, provided the corpse is relatively intact, they have not
received funerary rites or been delivered to a Paradise, and they have
not been dead for more than a month. They revive with 1 hit die.
Godbound and supernatural entities cannot be called back this way.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer033 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker107}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor035}Deception

The arts of Deception are those of stealth, illusion, and lies. A
masterful trickster is skilled at detecting impositions as well as
uttering them, and their miracles may have to do with revealing deceit
as well as impressing it on the minds of others. Gifts of stealth and
concealment usually apply as long as the hero is avoiding attention and
acting discreetly. Violence, loud noises, and directly exposing
themselves to guards or other vigilant sorts risks the loss of
concealment.

Heroes with the Deception Word may raise either their Dexterity or
Charisma to 16, depending on whether they favor stealth or lies. If
either score is already 16 or higher, they may set it to 18 instead.

Lesser Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker108}Deceiver's Unblinking Eye   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You can always tell when someone's trying to lie to you or deceive you.
You can see through mortal illusions and disguises. This gift does not
affect other Godbound with the Deception Word.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker109}A Familiar Face   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort to blend in with a populace or group. Assuming they're not
actively vigilant for intruders, no one will bother you unless you wish
otherwise, and you will intuitively know how to act, speak, and conduct
business so as to avoid drawing attention. This blending works even with
entities who look nothing like humans.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker110}Liar's Flawless Grace   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your lies can never be detected as such by magic or other special
abilities, including those of the Deception Word. Lesser foes will
always believe them unless they are completely implausible, emotionally
intolerable, or would oblige them to self-harm.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker111}Perfect Masquerade   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Instantly appear as any humanoid you have seen. Only
worthy foes or those with significant personal knowledge of the
individual have any chance to make a Spirit save against the deception
unless you do something egregiously out of character. You instinctively
mimic voice, clothing, mannerisms, and expected habits of behavior.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker112}Shadow Play   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. You can create perfect illusions in sound, smell, and
seeming, though they are intangible to the touch. The illusion appears
anywhere within sight, can be up to 30 feet in diameter, and can be made
to move and seem lifelike without further attention so long as Effort
remains committed to them. Invisibility is not an illusion.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker113}Veiled Step   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Lesser foes have no chance to detect you so long as you
stay out of their immediate presence and don't draw attention. Worthy
foes can try a Spirit save to resist when you are near.

Greater Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker114}Conviction of Error   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. All chosen targets present become convinced that one of
their beliefs of your choice is actually a terrible lie that has been
imposed upon them, whether it is the existence of a god or the fidelity
of their spouse. Worthy foes get a Spirit saving throw. They may
reconsider this conviction of error once Effort is reclaimed, but will
do so only under great pressure of emotions or obvious facts.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker115}Impenetrable Deceit   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You state something you believe to be false and Commit Effort. Everyone
who hears you speak at that moment will believe it, though worthy foes
get a Spirit saving throw. A saving throw is also granted if presented
with proof to the contrary or the lie is emotionally intolerable to
them. This belief will persist even after the effort is reclaimed unless
clear evidence contradicts it or the lie is too painful to believe.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker116}Walking Ghost   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You cannot be detected by lesser foes unless you attack
them or otherwise draw blatant attention, even if you are standing right
in front of the NPC. Worthy foes have a chance to notice you with a
Spirit save if you go into their presence or they're actively searching
for hidden foes. Attacks and loud actions always draw attention. Buying
this gift refunds [Veiled Step]{.CharOverride-3}, if already had.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer034 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker117}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor036}Earth

The Word of Earth gives command over stone and soil, and evokes the
hardness and obduracy of rock. Miracles of Earth revolve around stone,
earth, strength, hardness, and durability, and can be used to grant
brief marvels of these qualities to the hero or others. Metal can be
destroyed or purified from ore by this Word, but it cannot be molded the
same way in which raw stone or soil can be shaped.

Heroes with the Earth Word may set either their Strength or Constitution
scores to 16, depending on whether they emphasize the strength of
load-bearing stone or the hardness of solid rock. If the chosen score is
already 16 or higher, they may set it to 18 instead.

Lesser Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker118}Earthwalker   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You and your companions may pass through stone or soil
without need for breath. It requires an action to enter or leave earthen
environs. This gift functions for both natural earth and worked stone,
and can be used on soil of any consistency no thinner than mud. You can
sense hollow spaces in the earth within 100 feet.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker119}Jewel-Bright Eyes   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. While committed, you can see through earth or stone. With
a moment's focus, you may look outward from any gemstone you've ever
touched, regardless of where it is now.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker120}Mountain Thews   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort to the end of the scene. Perform one feat of impossible
strength. This feat requires too much focus to be an effective attack,
but you can lift, throw, or break almost anything you can lay your hands
on, ranging up in size to a modest house or a small ship.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker121}Obduracy of Stone   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your natural armor class is 3, and you have an invincible defense
against harm by stone, earth, or burial. You need not eat, drink, or
breathe. Armor and shields do not improve this base armor class.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker122}Rebellion of the Soil   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Cause one visible non-magical stone or metal object no larger than a
house to disintegrate or collapse. You can collapse larger non-magical
structures a piece at a time. The collapse can be destructive,
inflicting 1d20 damage on all inside, or controlled so as to leave those
within unharmed. Worn armor or items cannot be affected by this power.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker123}Stonespeaker   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You can communicate with earth or stone, seeing and
perceiving everything it has witnessed at a certain time of your choice.
Stones have no thought as humans recognize it, but they can perfectly
relay all the sounds and sights that took place in their presence. You
must specify a particular time to focus on, however.

Greater Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker124}Builder of Mountain Peaks   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Each round, create, modify, or destroy a stone or earth structure of up
to 20 x 20 x 20 foot size within your normal line of sight. The
structure can be elaborate, to the limit of your own creative skills.
See page
[[27]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor024)
for rules on trapping victims in walls or zones. You can create normal
earth or stone as part of this process. Creatures made entirely of earth
or stone within the area may be completely controlled, with worthy foes
allowed a Spirit save to resist.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker125}Fury of the Avalanche   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

The earth trembles and casts forth shards of stone. Commit Effort to
wield these eruptions as a 1d10 magical weapon for as long as Effort
remains committed. While the gift lasts, your Fray die may be applied to
every lesser foe standing on earth or stone within sight.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker126}Tremors of the World's Heart   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort to the end of the day to cause a localized earthquake on a
point within sight, flattening most buildings within a 300-foot radius
and throwing lesser foes to their knees. Those toppled must spend their
movement action regaining their feet. The full devastation to the
surroundings requires about sixty seconds to complete.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer035 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker127}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor037}Endurance

The Word of Endurance is one of hardiness, determination, and unflagging
exertion. Its miracles can grant survival even in the face of certain
death, strength when exhaustion would otherwise overwhelm, and
resistance against unwanted sorcery or curses. A Godbound graced with
this Word is fearsomely difficult to harm physically, but the Word
cannot deflect mental or spiritual damage sources or compulsions, like a
Knowledge [Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} or a Command compulsion. As a
guide, if it would involve a Spirit save then Endurance can\'t stop it.
Its miracles can\'t extend immunities to others unless noted otherwise.

Heroes of Endurance need not eat, sleep, drink, or breathe, and may set
their Constitution score to 16, or 18 if it's already 16 or higher.

Lesser Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker128}Amaranth Vitality   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Every fifteen minutes you heal one lost hit point per three character
levels, rounded up, so long as you are still alive.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker129}Body of Iron Will   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your natural armor class is 3. You are impervious to any natural
environmental damage, such as that caused by extreme heat, cold,
pressure, radiation, or vacuum. Such forces used as a weapon or hazard
against you function normally. Armor or shields don\'t benefit this base
AC.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker130}Defy the Iron   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort to the end of scene. Negate one physical attack or
instance of bodily injury. This gift can\'t ward off mental or spiritual
damage types, or magical effects that would normally provoke a Spirit
save. This immunity extends only to one round worth of damage when
facing an ongoing peril that does damage each round.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker131}Elemental Scorn   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Pick heat, cold, lightning, or some other form of energy. You have an
invincible defense against it in all its forms. As an On Turn action,
you can Commit Effort to extend this defense to every ally within a
hundred yards. You may take this gift more than once to gain immunity to
other elements; a single Commitment can extend all your defenses.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker132}Harder than This   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Become immune to one physical peril or special attack as
long as the effort remains committed. You can't adapt to weapons, gifts,
or spells, but you can adjust to become immune to a dragon's breath, a
basilisk's gaze, a beast\'s poison, or a volcano's caldera.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker133}Untiring Inspiration   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------

Pick one Influence project you've undertaken. Add 1 to the Influence
effective on it as you sleeplessly focus on the task. As an action,
Commit Effort. All allies within 100 yards are perpetually refreshed,
and not in need of rest, eating, drinking, or breathing.

Greater Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker134}Fear No Steel   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your determination or supernatural hardiness allows you
to shrug off the lesser harms of the world. You take 1 fewer point of
damage from all incoming sources of damage, whether physical or magical.
Optionally, Commit Effort for the day to become immune for a scene to
attacks from lesser foes without magical weapons.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker135}Unbreakable   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort to the end of the day. Until the start of your next turn,
you have an invincible defense against any physical, tangible attack or
spell effect. Mental and spiritual harms or damage are not deflected.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker136}Undying   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

While you can be brought to zero hit points, mutilated, or burnt, you
cannot actually be killed except by the effect or aid of a Word-powered
gift, divine miracle, or gift-enhanced attack. If not slain, you
regenerate back to one hit point in an hour from your largest remaining
piece.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer036 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker137}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor038}Fertility

Fertility for their lands and children for their families are two of the
dearest desires of all common folk, and the Word of Fertility grants
such blessings. But what it gives it may also take away, and the
miracles of this power can also be used to blight land and curse
lineages. Immediate miracles tend to briefly influence desire,
sexuality, harvests, and blights, while the gifts of the Word can
produce more lasting effects.

Heroes with the Fertility Word have perfect control over their
reproduction and may set their Constitution score to 16, or 18 if it's
already 16 or higher. They have an invincible defense against wooden
weapons or objects, vegetal monsters, and plant-based toxins.

Lesser Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker138}Birth Blessing   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Instantly render a target sterile, induce miscarriage, or bless the
target with the assurance of a healthy conception which you can shape in
the child's details. You can also cure congenital defects or ensure safe
birth. Such is the power of this gift that it can even induce a virgin
birth. Resisting targets who are worthy foes can save versus Hardiness.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker139}Second Spring   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. All allies in sight are refreshed, regaining
vigor as if well-fed and rested and healing 1d6 hit points of damage
plus the Godbound\'s level. Unlike most healing effects, recipients need
not commit Effort to benefit from this blessing.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker140}Seeds of Death   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You may induce cancers and killing growths as a 1d10
magic weapon with a 200 foot range, making attack rolls as normal. The
first round's use of this power is imperceptible to onlookers and the
victim, but the second and further rounds produce visible tumors and
growths. Lesser foes will die of cancer 1d6 months after you use this
gift on them, barring magical healing, even if you elect to do no damage
with a hit.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker141}Sense of Ash   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You sense all poisons, plagues, environmental damage, or
curses on the land within sight. You gain an impression of the persons
or causes responsible for them if they are not otherwise concealed by
magic. You recognize diseased or disease-inflicting creatures on sight
and can determine what plague afflicts them or that they inflict on
others.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker142}Touch of Green Restraint   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Plants in a 50' radius around the chosen
point in sight erupt to cling to foes. All enemies in the area must make
an Evasion saving throw at the start of each round to throw off the
vines and regain free movement, though they can still fight in place as
normal or launch ranged attacks if they have them. Foes subject to your
Fray die suffer it each round they remain bound. Those enemies who reach
zero hit dice because of this may be either utterly immobilized or
crushed to death at the Godbound's discretion.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker143}Withering Curse   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Forty acres of plants instantly die and the
land they were on is cursed to uselessness for a generation unless
reversed by this Word's powers. Optionally, plants and living or cut
wood can be reduced to ash as desired in a 50-foot radius. Wooden items
held or carried by a bearer are not affected, though buildings or
vehicles can be destroyed. Plant monsters suffer 1d12 damage per level.

Greater Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker144}Cornucopian Blessing   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Choose a container holding a non-magical agricultural
substance; so long as the Effort remains committed, the supply will
never run out, no matter how much is taken from the container. The
container can provide up to ten tons of goods per day per hero level,
provided its mouth is large enough to disgorge such amounts.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker145}Sever the Line   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and choose a target in sight. The target is
rendered sterile and only a gift or similar power can undo it. All their
children immediately suffer a 1d12 damage die, grandchildren suffer
1d10, great-grandchildren suffer 1d8, and so forth down to the fifth
generation, which suffers 1d4. This curse only works once on any given
target, and particular descendants may be spared by the hero.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker146}Unending Abundance   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. The land you designate within a ten mile
radius becomes impossibly fertile, crops erupting in mere hours and
feeding any number of people within that area. If applied as a gift and
not used as a one-off miracle, the persistent fertility counts as a
beneficial Feature to any faction that controls the land, though it
cannot be sacrificed in the case of a lost Conflict it was involved in.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer037 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker147}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor039}Fire

Born of red flame, the Word of Fire grants powers of burning, melting,
and destroying those things displeasing to the hero. It may also be used
to shield allies from the fury of the flame, or undo the damage that
fire has done to a person or object. Its miracles may also bring light
to a place, or to conceal with veils of choking smoke. More subtle
miracles may invoke Fire's ties to passions of fury and lust, enkindling
these feelings in others or causing them to spread to others like the
swelling of a growing flame.

Heroes with the Fire Word have an invincible defense against flame and
smoke. They may wield fire as a magical weapon with a range of up to 50
feet and a 1d10 damage die.

Lesser Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker148}Consuming Gaze   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

An object in sight up to 20 x 20 x 20 feet in size is consumed in flame
and turned to fine ash, even if normally non-combustible. Larger objects
may take a few rounds to completely burn away. Objects carried by a
person cannot be affected. See page
[[27]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor024)
for rules on creating walls of flame or other zones of hazardous
terrain.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker149}Firestorm   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Choose a point within sight; every chosen
target within 100 feet of it is struck by falling flame for a 1d6 die of
damage per level of the Godbound, with an Evasion save allowed to halve
the damage taken, rounded up.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker150}Firewalker   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Instantly know the location of all flames
within a mile. As an action, teleport and emerge from any larger than a
candle flame with any willing companions in physical contact with you.
You cannot move more than one mile total in any one hour.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker151}Give Forth the Ashes   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Unburn objects or creatures in a 20 x 20 x 20 foot cube each round,
repairing damage and restoring the condition of burnt objects. Fire
damage is healed at no Effort cost, but the dead are not raised.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker152}Master of the Furnace   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Shape and mold all flame within sight, directing or
extinguishing it as you wish. As an action, set an unattended, inanimate
object within sight on fire if it's flammable. Objects larger than a
wagon can be ignited only in part.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker153}Nimbus of Flame   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You're surrounded by a halo of searing heat. Anyone who
attacks you in melee combat takes 1 point of fire damage before the
attack is resolved. Assailants can suffer only one such injury per
round, even if they launch multiple attacks.

Greater Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker154}Burning Rebuke   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Every foe that attacks you while angry or impassioned
suffers your Fray die in fire damage before each attack is resolved,
even if they have more hit dice than you or make multiple attacks.
Normally, only mindless creatures or remarkably disciplined foes can
remain calm enough to avoid the damage. Mobs suffer this damage
straight.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker155}Cinder Words   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your voice scorches your enemies. Every lesser foe within
earshot takes your Fray damage each round. You can ignite unattended
objects with a word as a free action once a round.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker156}Searing Blade   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You wield fire as a weapon, either limning a blade in it
or using projections of it as a magical weapon with a 200 foot range and
1d10 damage die. Individual victims killed by this explode into flames,
doing a 1d6 damage die to all desired targets within 20 feet. This
gift\'s damage is always rolled straight against Mobs of lesser foes.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer038 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker157}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor040}Health

Bread, children, and health; these things are ever in the prayers of the
people. The Word of Health offers one of these at least, banishing
illness and putting aright mismade flesh. Miracles of Health can banish
plagues and cure injuries, though gifts are generally needed for
large-scale workings save in relatively minor feats of healing. Vengeful
demigods of Health can also inflict the same plagues they might cure.

While potent, powers of healing often demand much from the reserves of
those who would benefit by them. Some gifts require those healed to
Commit Effort for the day to absorb the healing energies. NPCs and
others without listed Effort scores can be assumed to be able to benefit
from such healing once a day at most.

Heroes with the Health Word have an invincible defense against diseases
and poisons, and can diagnose them instantly. They may set their
Constitution to 16, or to 18 if it's already 16 or higher.

Lesser Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker158}Ender of Plagues   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Cure all diseases and poisonings within
sight. If the Effort is expended for the day, the range of the cure
extends to a half-mile around the hero, penetrates walls and other
barriers, and you become immediately aware of any disease-inducing
curses or sources of pestilence within that area.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker159}Flesh Made True   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You are able to cure a target\'s maimings, blindings, poisons,
mutilations, and birth defects by sight once per round. This does not
heal hit point damage, but it can restore lost limbs and crippled
functionality.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker160}Intrinsic Health   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your maximum hit points increase by 2 extra points per level, including
levels gained before you took this gift. This gift can't be suppressed.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker161}Merciful Gaze   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

By your gaze on a target within sight, you can heal 2d6 plus your
character level points of damage. The target must Commit Effort for the
day in order to benefit from the healing, however. NPCs and other
ordinary mortals normally can benefit but once per day from this gift.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker162}Plaguebringer   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your touch or successful weapon attacks cause a sickness
of your choice. Worthy foes get a Hardiness save to resist. The sickness
can be restricted to them or allowed its natural contagion. The disease
appears within 1d6 hours and is at full effect within a day. Lethal
sicknesses will kill within 1d6 days without a magical cure.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker163}Vital Furnace   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. Instantly heal any hit points lost since the
end of your last turn, provided the harm didn't kill you.

Greater Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker164}Burning Vitality   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. Regain 1 hit point per round until at full
health. Alternatively, you may Commit Effort for the day to heal 1 hit
point or hit die in all allies within 100 yards and raise ordinary
mortal beings from the dead with 1 hit die, provided they died within
the past five minutes and are not completely mangled. Recipients need
not Commit Effort to benefit from this healing.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker165}Deplete Health   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene and choose a target. They sicken, falling to
half their current hit dice or hit points, rounded up. Worthy foes get a
Hardiness save to resist. The lost hit dice return at the scene's end if
the creature is not dead. This gift does not stack multiple times.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker166}Lifegiver   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Allies in your presence automatically stabilize at zero hit dice or hit
points provided their bodies aren't torn to pieces. As an action, Commit
Effort for the day to revive an ordinary mortal creature from death if
they've been dead less than a day and some part of their corpse remains
intact. Godbound and other mighty entities cannot be revived.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer039 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker167}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor041}Journeying

The hero fares far with the Word of Journeying, which concerns itself
with long travels and perilous paths. Miracles of Journeying involve
swift transportation to a desired place, the sundering of barriers to
the hero's path, and the avoidance of peril while on the road. Other
miracles can seal or open existing Night Roads. Note that the gifts of
Journeying apply to [travel]{.CharOverride-2} rather than simple
movement. Gifts that speak of travel mean for the hero to be moving from
one location to another destination rather than just running around in a
single area.

Heroes with the Word of Journeying always know exactly where they are,
never lose their way to a known destination, and may treat travel as if
it were as restful and nourishing to them as sound sleep and a good
meal.

Lesser Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker168}Dust At Your Heels   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You and those with you cannot be caught by pursuers as
long as you keep traveling. Your group will always be moving faster than
them regardless of their speed until you halt your movement.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker169}Know the Path   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You always know the safest and easiest way to go to reach any location
that is not kept secret from the world. Those who go with you also count
their journeying to be food and sleep, allowing constant travel.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker170}Master of the Key   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

You can instantly defeat any mundane trap, lock, tie, binding or seal.
Commit Effort for the scene to overcome magical barriers, traps, and
bindings within sight, including ones of a mental nature. You may do
this even if the binding effect would otherwise render you helpless.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker171}Opening the Way   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene to create a hole in security, whether it's a
guard suddenly wandering away from his post or a rift appearing in a
magical barrier. The hole will allow you and your allies a clear path
into or past a place and will last as long as is practical, no less than
five minutes. This security hole is not usually large enough to allow
unhindered movement [within]{.CharOverride-2} the location, only entry
into it.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker172}Swift Progress   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You and all who travel with you move at double the usual
daily rate of travel and can cross any terrain as if it were flat
ground, even mountains or seas. None of you are ever harmed by the
natural climate or other unsalubrious natural environment.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker173}Untroubled Passage   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. While you travel, you and those with you will never be
hindered by chance-met creatures or bad weather. Worthy foes wandering
in your path get a Spirit saving throw to notice you.

Greater Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker174}Exodus Road   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your Journeying gifts can apply to any number of willing
companions in sight, including whole armies or cities.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker175}Hour of Need   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. Up to a dozen allies within a week's journey
realized you'd need them there at this time and will arrive this round
if they were willing to come. This may induce some problems of
causality, but the gift's power allows their arrival regardless.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker176}Path of Racing Dawn   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You and those with you can fly or otherwise ignore
terrain, moving at a rate of 100 miles an hour while journeying. You can
cross shorter distances through the air, though the flight is not
precise enough to serve in combat or other cramped interior spaces.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer040 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker177}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor042}Knowledge

Knowledge is the Word of understanding. All that mortal scholars know is
within the purview of this Word, along with secrets of the past and
present. The Word of Knowledge cannot penetrate the veil of the future,
but it can reveal almost anything of the present world. Deep mysteries
of a campaign world cannot be pried loose, however.

Facts or events perpetrated by someone with the Word of Deception allow
their enactor a Spirit saving throw to conceal events from the Word of
Knowledge.

Heroes with the Knowledge Word may set either their Intelligence or
Wisdom attribute to 16. If the score is already 16 or higher, they may
set it to 18 instead.

Lesser Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker178}Best Course   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Gain one sentence of truthful information
from the GM on the best way to accomplish your current desire or goal.
New information cannot be gained with this gift until the existing
information is acted upon or the goal is abandoned.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker179}Best-Laid Plans   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and lay out a plan. The GM announces the most
relevant complication or threat to the plan's execution that you don't
already know about. This insight can be drawn upon only once for any
particular goal being pursued, with the GM deciding what constitutes a
different goal.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker180}Excision of Understanding   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

As an action, erase a visible target\'s knowledge of a language, an
intellectual skill, or a particular topic or event. This can\'t erase
spellcasting abilities or other powers, but lasts until the skill is
relearned or the Godbound relents. Worthy foes can save versus Spirit to
resist.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker181}Truth That Burns   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene and choose a visible target. Learn the
knowledge of them or their plans that they least want you to know, as
judged by the GM. Worthy foes get a Spirit saving throw to resist this
subtle inquisition.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker182}Unveiled Truth   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene; get an answer to any question, provided the
truth about it is not being intentionally concealed by all who know it.
This answer is generally brief, no more than a few sentences.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker183}Word Far Off   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Know what's going on in a particular place
or community that you've been, learning as many as three sentences of
what the GM thinks you'd find most important or most relevant to your
immediate interests.

Greater Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker184}Disclose the Flaw   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene and choose a target, either creature or
institution. Know its current weaknesses and most vulnerable elements at
that time, including any hidden means by which it might be killed or
destroyed. Creatures reveal their hit dice and Effort totals.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker185}Irresistible Query   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. Ask the GM any question about current or past
events and be answered in one word or short phrase. This power cannot be
used more than once on a given topic until the situation changes
significantly.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker186}Omniscient Scholar   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You have mastered all spheres of mortal academic knowledge. You always
know the answer to any question involving such learning, if any mortal
sage knows it and automatically succeed on attribute checks to
accomplish intellectual tasks if they\'re within mortal capabilities.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer041 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker187}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor043}Luck

Luck is a subtle Word in the main, without many of the blatantly obvious
effects of the other domains. Instead, luck simply graces those blessed
by its power, ensuring that things somehow work out well for them and
very poorly for those who displease them. Luck miracles can be used to
rework fate, ensuring that seemingly-random events turn out well or
poorly for those targeted by the hero's attentions.

Heroes gifted in the Luck Word may roll 1d20 once a day. At any time
during that day, they may replace their own or someone else's 1d20 roll
with the one in reserve. They can only replace a roll once per day.

Lesser Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker188}Blighted Luck   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

A single non-Mob target is cursed with misfortune. They'll always lose
games of chance, bad things of varying non-fatal character will always
happen to them, and they always roll twice on hit rolls and saves and
take the worse result. Worthy foes can make a Spirit save to resist and
require Effort to be committed for the scene. This effect lasts until
you choose to lift it, it\'s dispelled, or a particular event happens.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker189}Nine Lives   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Automatically reroll saves or enemy hit rolls that would result in the
hero's death or mortal injury. The second roll is taken, even if it's
worse.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker190}Salting Away the Luck   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort after the hero rolls a die while doing something
consequential. The die is rerolled, but the initial result is saved.
When the Effort is reclaimed the result can be given to anyone else in
the hero's presence, provided a die with the same number of sides is
being rolled. Unwilling worthy foes can make a Spirit save to resist the
donation. This gift can preserve only one roll at a time.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker191}Spun Fortune   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Another person rerolls a roll you are aware
that they just made.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker192}Unmarred Beneficence   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------

The hero has a natural AC of 3, luckily avoiding perils. If a misfortune
lands randomly on a member of their group, they're never the victim of
it. This base AC isn\'t improved by armor or shields.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker193}World Against You   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. The hero becomes able to use luck as a weapon with a
range of 100 feet, inflicting sudden and wildly-improbable calamities on
a foe with normal attack rolls. When used to attack, damage is 1d10 and
treated as a magic weapon. The source of this incredible bad luck is not
perceptible to mortal onlookers or non-supernatural beings.

Greater Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker194}By Chance   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. The player dictates an event in their
presence that isn't utterly improbable, and it happens. Damage to foes
is limited to a 1d12 die for a focused calamity on a single target or a
1d6 damage die apiece for troubles that affect a group. This power
affects only physical objects and events, and not minds or emotions.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker195}Impossible Victory   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Exactly once, the hero automatically wins a conflict or obtains their
end in a situation by blind luck. It may not be a total victory, but it
gains their main goal. They then lose the gift, are refunded its cost,
and can never purchase it again. Luck miracles cannot replicate this
gift.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker196}Unfailing Fortune   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

The hero may always reroll a natural 1 on any die they roll. They can
dictate the outcome of any element of chance in gambling or gaming.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer042 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker197}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor044}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor045}Might

The primal power of strength is embodied in the Word of Might. Many
martial Godbound are strong, but a Godbound of Might excels them all in
raw physical strength, and can perform miracles of lifting, throwing, or
breaking things with their bare hands. They also have the power to bless
their allies with similar graces of strength, though usually for
specific actions or challenges rather than as a standing bonus to their
abilities.

A Godbound of the Word of Might is tremendously powerful, gaining a
Strength score of 19 and a +4 attribute modifier for Strength. This
prowess allows them to lift or break anything that is humanly possible
to so handle, though truly supernatural feats of strength require the
use of a gift or miracle.

Lesser Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker198}Descent of the Mountain   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

The Godbound can hurl any object they can lift to any point in sight. If
used as an attack, they must make a normal hit roll modified by
Strength. Very large or heavy objects make clumsy weapons and suffer a
-4 to hit, but inflict 1d12 damage to those in the area they land on,
modified by Strength.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker199}Falling Meteor Strike   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

With a moment\'s concentration, the Godbound can smash any single
non-magical object of less than ten feet in diameter. If the object is
larger than that, a ten-foot high, wide, and deep hole is punched into
it. If the object is magically durable or resilient, the Godbound must
Commit Effort for the scene to smash it. The focus required for this
blow makes it useless against mobile enemies, but if the Godbound
strikes an immobile or helpless target with this gift they suffer four
points of damage for every level of the Godbound.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker200}Fists of Black Iron   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

The Godbound\'s unarmed and weapon attacks are fueled by their
tremendous strength. One-handed weapons do 1d10 damage in their hands,
and two-handed ones or unarmed attacks made with both hands free inflict
1d12. These attacks count as magical weapons.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker201}Shoulders Wide as the World   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. The Godbound can pick up any object no larger than a
warship and carry it at their normal movement rate. The gift allows the
object to hold together and the Godbound to avoid sinking into the
earth, but the object is too unwieldy to use for violent ends.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker202}Stronger Than You   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Whenever the Godbound is in an opposed Strength check or contest against
another creature or opposing it in a grapple or other exercise of
strength, the Godbound always wins. If two Godbound with this gift
struggle, the test is resolved normally. As an action, the Godbound can
confer the benefits of this gift on an ally for one contest or action.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker203}Surge of Strength   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene to maximize any single damage roll modified
by Strength. Such is your aura of tremendous might that you can apply
this benefit to an ally within sight if you wish.

Greater Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker204}Leap the Moon   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. The Godbound can leap tremendous distances, ignoring all
fall damage and able to jump to any point within sight in lieu of their
movement action for the round. They can fight flying enemies by using
their move action to leap up before striking their target. They cannot
leap more than ten total miles of distance per hour, however.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker205}Loosening God\'s Teeth   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and make a single armed or unarmed attack. If
the blow hits, the damage roll is read straight. This damage roll cannot
be maximized by other gifts or abilities. Even on a miss, the concussion
of the blow does injury as a normal-damage hit.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker206}Thews of the Gods   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

The Godbound is always able to pick up anything smaller than a large
building and punch through, smash, or break loose any non-magical
substance as a free part of their movement or other actions. This might
is quickly deployed, but not finely-controlled enough to help damage
rolls or other attacks.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer043 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker207}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor046}Night

Dreams, sleep, darkness, and calm are found beneath the banner of night.
Night passes over many places at once, and enters into even the most
well-guarded chambers. The Word of Night can work miracles involving
sleep, blindness, swift passage into darkness, and physical
intangibility. These gifts often require a dimly-lit area for best
effect.

Heroes with the Word of Night can see perfectly in darkness. They need
not sleep, and their actions will never involuntarily cause the
awakening of any sleepers around them.

Lesser Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker208}Damn Their Eyes   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Choose a target in sight. Lesser foes are blinded, while worthy foes can
save versus Hardiness to resist and require the hero to Commit Effort
for the scene to affect them . Optionally, you can blind the target only
to particular people or things. Those selectively blinded will not
realize their blindness until it's pointed out or physically
encountered. The blindness lasts as long as you desire in lesser foes,
or ends after the scene for worthy foes. Blinded enemies usually suffer
a -4 to all melee hit rolls and have no meaningful chance to hit with
ranged attacks, barring superhuman senses in other ways.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker209}Darkling Stairs   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You can fly or move along vertical surfaces at your normal movement
rate, provided you are surrounded by darkness too deep to tell a white
thread from a black one. The power lingers one round after bright light.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker210}Knives of Night   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You are now able to harden darkness into a weapon with a
range of 200 feet. When used to attack, it does 1d10 damage and is
treated as a magical weapon. Foes reduced to zero hit points can either
be killed, put to sleep, or permanently blinded at your discretion.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker211}Road of Shadows   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Step into one shadow and emerge from the
one nearest to the desired destination, provided it's within a mile. The
gift can move you no more than ten miles total in any one hour.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker212}Still Silence of Sleep   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene and choose a point in sight. All lesser foes
within 50 feet of that point must make a Spirit save or fall asleep. You
may dictate a sleeping person's dreams or nightmares if you can see
them, though worthy foes can save to resist. You can send and receive
messages with your fellow pantheon members and close associates through
dreams, if they permit it.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker213}Welcoming the Dusk   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. Create darkness around you in any configuration, up to a
30 foot radius. You can see through it, and it can follow you.

Greater Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker214}Darkness at Noon   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. You bring or dispel night in a radius up to
a mile per level. At night, the moon is at whatever phase you desire,
while banished night leaves the sun overhead. Optionally, you may ensure
that no lesser foe sleepers within that area will wake up for anything
but severe physical injury, or send them specific dreams.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker215}Flesh of Shadows   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. Become an almost-insubstantial shadow, unable to affect
the real world or pass through solid objects, but with an invincible
defense against non-magical weapon attacks but not spells.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker216}Speaker in Dreams   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. You can communicate with anyone you have seen before via
shared dreams they recall perfectly. You can also spy on their dreams to
get an idea of their greatest concerns and learn their location.
Unwilling worthy foes can make a Spirit save to resist.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer044 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker217}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor047}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor048}Passion

The Word of Passion commands the heart, filling it with the emotions
desired by the Godbound or banishing those feelings that prove
troublesome. While these emotions can be overwhelming, the Godbound
cannot dictate what the subjects do with them. In this way, Passion
inspires personal action in its targets, but does not give the direct
control granted by the Word of Command.

Heroes with the Word of Passion are blessed with grace and an
understanding of the heart. They may set either their Charisma or Wisdom
attribute score to 16, or 18 if the score is already that high.

Lesser Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker218}Banner of Passion   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. All NPCs who are lesser foes within earshot or sight are
suffused with a powerful emotion of your choice, directed at the object
of your choosing. Worthy foes get a Spirit saving throw each round to
throw it off. This emotion will make them act to the limits of their
character and will last at least a day after the effort is reclaimed.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker219}Fashioning a Friend   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene to beguile a visible creature, inspiring it
to feelings of friendship and cooperativeness towards you. It will not
question these feelings, however irrational, and they will persist until
you obviously betray it or do it blatant harm. Lesser foes have no
resistance against this power, while worthy foes can save versus Spirit
to avoid the enchantment.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker220}Follow the Threads   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You may study a target for one action to identify the half-dozen people
most emotionally significant to them, learning their appearance, the
name the target knows them as, and a few words of description of the
bond between them. Lesser foes cannot resist this, while worthy foes can
save versus Spirit to maintain their secrets.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker221}Heart of the Lion   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You have an invincible defense against fear and all unwanted
emotion-affecting effects. You may Commit Effort for the scene as an
Instant action to share this immunity with all allies within 100 yards.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker222}Snuff the Heart\'s Candle   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Instantly quell an emotion in a visible target. You can extinguish a
particular emotion entirely, such as fear, loyalty or love, or you can
selectively snuff it towards particular people or activities. The target
is unable to feel that emotion toward the selected subjects until you
release them from the effect. Lesser foes are automatically affected,
while worthy foes can save versus Spirit to resist the stilling.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker223}Terrifying Mien   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort to the end of the scene. All NPC foes who can see or hear
you, must instantly make a Morale check. Lesser foes roll this at a -2
penalty. Foes that fail this check will usually flee in terror, albeit
those without a means of escape might surrender on the spot. This gift
can be used against a foe only once per scene, and PCs are immune.

Greater Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker224}Heart like Clay   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene to completely control a subject\'s emotions,
dictating all they feel and their emotional attitudes toward any persons
or subjects of your choice. Lesser foes are utterly helpless against
this shaping and can be driven to wholly uncharacteristic extremes by
it. Worthy foes can only be molded within the limits of their own usual
emotional range and can save versus Spirit to resist the shaping. The
emotions persist despite all adversities until the Godbound releases the
subject.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker225}Infectious Passion   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene to plant a seed of a particular emotional
attitude toward a chosen person or topic in a visible target. If that
target is affected, they become infectious, spreading that same attitude
toward their friends and associates over the course of a single contact.
The infection can spread five or six degrees before it loses its magical
potency, usually enough to completely overwhelm a village, court, or
neighborhood. Lesser foes get no saving throw, but worthy enemies can
save versus Spirit to resist. It lasts until the Godbound releases the
victims or the emotion becomes blatantly inappropriate.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker226}Song Buried Deep   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and choose a phrase, passage of music, image,
or person in your presence. At a time or context of your choosing, the
sight or experience of that subject unleashes the effects of a [Banner
of Passion]{.CharOverride-3} on all present. You can define the context
as precisely as you wish and choose the Banner\'s effects and focus
beforehand. The maximum range of this effect is one mile per level of
the Godbound. Note that the effects apply to [any]{.CharOverride-2}
matching phrase, music, or image; if the Godbound uses this power on a
nation\'s battle flag and bids it trigger for friendly soldiers when
facing combat, every allied military unit within miles will be affected
provided they\'ve got a matching battle flag. If the Godbound imbues a
traditional greeting with the passion, then every person who hears the
greeting will be affected.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer045 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker227}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor049}Sea

The Word of the sea commands water in all its forms, but most often that
of the rivers and the oceans. All creatures that dwell within water are
subject to the sea, and its waters can carry its blessed far away or
crush and erode those less favored. Miracles of the sea can smash with
crushing pressure, conjure vast amounts of water, control the flow of
liquids, or purify with the cleansing salt of the oceans.

Heroes with the Sea Word have an invincible defense against cold, can
breathe water, swim at twice their normal movement rate, and see with
perfect clarity underwater, regardless of available light. They may
grant these benefits to their companions, except for cold immunity.

Lesser Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker228}Body of Water   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Your flesh flows around dangers and encapsulates toxins. Your natural
armor class is 3 and you are immune to poisons. You can apply a poison
by touch if you've previously swallowed or been struck by a dose, thus
ejecting the toxin. This AC isn\'t improved by shields or armor.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker229}Crushing Depths   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Destroy any non-magical object you're
touching, up to 20 x 20 x 20 feet in size, as it erodes or is compressed
into splinters. Living creatures require a normal weapon or unarmed
attack to hit and are not automatically destroyed, though the damage die
is treated as if it rolled the maximum possible.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker230}Living Torrent   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Spout a torrent of water at dangerous levels of pressure.
The water can be used as a ranged weapon out to 100 feet, doing 1d10
damage and counting as a magical weapon. It will destroy one foot of
earthen or wooden barriers in one round. The water can be allowed to
remain after using this power, or allowed to vanish as the wielder
wills.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker231}Lord of the Waters   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. While in effect, you can transform into any non-magical
sea creature larger than a shrimp and smaller than a kraken. You can
speak to and command all natural sea life, sense every living creature
under or on the water within a mile, and summon such life to your
presence as needed. Intelligent creatures need not obey your summons or
commands if they do not wish to do so. Ships or fleets in your company
are impervious to storms and reefs.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker232}Secrets of the Deep   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You sense the exact position of all flowing liquids
within 200 feet, including the blood in living veins. By touching a body
of water and seeking a particular thing or type of object, you become
aware of every place where such a thing is sunken, floating or
wave-lapped within ten miles.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker233}Walking With the Tide   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Enter a body of water large enough to
submerge you and emerge from any like body of water within a mile,
exiting at the nearest suitable pool to your desired location. If the
bodies of water are connected by waters wide enough to admit a creature
of your size, the range increases to a hundred miles.

Greater Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker234}River Tamer   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. Amounts of water no larger than a small river can be
redirected, made to flow into the air or move in otherwise impossible
fashion. The water may sweep away buildings or creatures depending on
the amounts involved, and is sufficient to speed a ship at sea at ten
times its usual pace. The flow continues as long as effort remains
committed, and can be controlled up to 1,000 feet away from the hero as
an action. The hero and their allies are never unwillingly moved or
harmed by this water.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker235}Salt-Spray Purity   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Dispel or automatically resist any single
magical effect targeted at you or an ally. For the duration of the
scene, that effect or gift cannot affect the subject you defended, even
if it is applied again. Optionally, instead of this effect, you may
suppress any other Godbound gift for one round as if by a successful
miracle.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker236}Tsunami Hand   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. You strike a blow which becomes a crashing
wave, rushing up to 200 feet in width, 30 feet in height and 100 feet in
length before it drains away. Small buildings and fragile structures are
destroyed, and creatures take your level in points of damage, tripled
for Mobs. The wave can be cast in a smaller area if desired, does not
harm targets you wish preserved, and vanishes after it breaks so as not
to leave the area inundated.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer046 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker237}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor050}Sky

The sky rules weather, flight, lightning, and wind. Those blessed by its
might navigate the air as easily as the earth, wield lightning as a
weapon, or blight whole cities with storm and wind. Miracles of the sky
might banish hostile weather, smite a target with a bolt of lightning,
conjure wind to lift and carry a thing, or perform some other feat of
aerial command.

Heroes with the Sky Word are never harmed by falling, need not breathe,
and have an invincible defense against electricity, cold and injurious
sounds.

Lesser Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker238}Clouds Below   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Fill the air around you with mist, up a 300 foot radius.
You and your allies can see through it, but others with normal senses
can see no further than five feet around them. The clouds can douse any
mundane fire and allow every ally within it to ignore the first 5 points
of fire damage they take each round.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker239}Eyes Above   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Gain a bird's-eye view of a mile around you, gazing swiftly enough to
immediately spot particular individuals or things you might be looking
for. You can focus on individual locations within that mile, observing
everything going on but unable to overhear ordinary speech. The sight
cannot penetrate roofs or other cover.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker240}Rain of Lightning   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Choose a point within sight; every desired target within 100 feet
suffers a 1d6 die of electrical damage as a cloud of lightning envelops
them. The bolts are enough to kill the weak, but can't destroy objects.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker241}Sapphire Wings   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. The hero can fly at twice their usual movement rate. If
undistracted and able to fly in a straight line, they can reach speeds
of up to 100 miles an hour.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker242}Stormsword   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Wield electricity as a ranged weapon out to 200 feet, or
sheath your weapon in lightning. Damage done is a minimum of 1d10 and
counts as a magical weapon. Attacks against wet or metal-armored foes
always do at least 1 point of damage, even on a miss.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker243}Windsinger   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. Control weather within a mile, from still air to
rainstorms strong enough to knock down fragile structures and make
mundane archery impossible, Weather changes occur instantly on use of
this gift and last as long as Effort remains committed. When released,
the weather rapidly returns to its normal condition.

Greater Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker244}Boreal Spike   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Bring down the icy chill of the heavens on
a point within sight. Every chosen target within 200 feet is frozen for
a number of points of damage equal to your level. Against Mobs, the
spike does 1d10 damage straight for every two character levels of the
hero, rounded up. Liquids in range are frozen solid up to 200 feet deep
and all normal fires are extinguished.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker245}Fury of the Heavens   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. For the rest of the scene, when under the
open sky you can hit one target or Mob within sight with a bolt that
does your level in damage, with a Hardiness save for half. The blasts
can destroy structures less sturdy than a stone building. Invoking these
bolts is a Smite action, and as such it can\'t be done two rounds in a
row.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker246}Voice of the Winds   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You may focus on a specific point within ten miles to hear everything
happening there unless it's sealed from outside air. You can speak to
that point and be heard there alone. If you spend an action shouting,
foes within 100 feet of you suffer your Fray die if applicable.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer047 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker247}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor051}Sorcery

Sorcery is an unusual Word, one representing a bond with the fundamental
laws of creation and the deep, subtle secrets of its operation. Sorcery
has no native miracles and cannot be used by itself to create effects or
mimic its gifts. Instead, mastery of its gifts allows a Godbound to
wield the flexible and potent powers of theurgy.

Godbound affiliated with the Sorcery Word brush aside the incantations
of lesser mages. As an Instant ability, the PC can Commit Effort for the
scene to instantly negate any low magic spell being cast in their
presence or banish or destroy any low magic construct or summoned
entity. This counter does not function against theurgy or arcane powers
that are merely similar to low magic spells.

Lesser Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker248}Adept of the Gate   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You have been initiated into the Gate, the humblest level of theurgy,
albeit still one beyond all but the mightiest mortal wizards. You may
choose four invocations of the Gate to master as part of this learning
and may learn more as you find them.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker249}Excellent Pause   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

When you cast a theurgy invocation or low magic spell, you may Commit
Effort just before it is triggered. The spell is then suspended and may
be released as an action at any time thereafter, with the Committed
Effort returning at the end of that scene. You may suspend more than one
spell if you\'re willing to Commit the Effort to each, but releasing a
spell requires your action for the turn.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker250}Greater Pavis of Rule   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. For the duration, you are immune to all low
magic spells and gain a +4 bonus on all saving throws versus theurgy. If
a theurgy invocation would not normally allow a save, you can make one
without the bonus to resist its effects.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker251}Perfection of Understanding   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You are a remarkably swift student of magic. You can learn any low magic
path within a month, taking one week per level of initiation of your
teacher, without requiring a Fact committed to it. You can learn theurgy
spells at a vastly accelerated rate as well; one day for an invocation
of any degree. You automatically understand any low magic or theurgy
used against you or in your presence, knowing its function, limits, and
degree of power. You can also recognize the author of a magical working
if you've seen other examples of their work.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker252}Subtle Eye of Knowing   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

With a moment's concentration, you can discern any low magic or theurgy
active in the area, identifying its general function. Other forms of
magic present are noted, but only a vague sense of danger or weal is
imparted. This gaze immediately identifies any theurges or low magic
practitioners in sight.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker253}Will that Burns   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

When struck while maintaining concentration, such as while casting a
theurgy invocation, you may Commit Effort for the scene to maintain your
concentration, prevent the loss of the spell, and inflict a 1d8 straight
damage die on the foe that struck you as a mystic backlash.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker254}Wizard's Wrath   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your Fray die can harm even worthy foes, those enemies of
greater hit dice than you have levels. This power also affects those
gifts that allow you to apply your Fray die as part of their effects,
increasing the potency of such powers.

Greater Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker255}Adept of the Throne   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You have been initiated into the Throne, the deepest degree of theurgy's
secrets. You must be an adept of the Way to master this. You master two
invocations of the Throne as part of this learning and may learn more as
you find them.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker256}Adept of the Way   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You have been initiated into the Way, the second tier of theurgic
mysteries. You must already be an adept of the Gate to master this. You
master three invocations of the Way as part of this learning and may
learn more as you find them.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker257}Ruler of the Lesser Paths   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Commit Effort. After an hour's meditation, you may select one low magic
tradition which you have spent at least a day in study with a
practitioner of any level of mastery. Until the Effort is reclaimed, you
may cast spells as an archmage of that path. While this gift is in
effect, you are entirely immune to that path's spells if you so desire.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer048 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker258}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor052}Sun

Light, hope, vision and purity are the purviews of the Sun Word. The sun
banishes malevolent sorcery and gives courage with its radiance.
Miracles of the sun might be used to break spells, reveal truths, give
hope, or blast the impure with torrents of celestial flame. The sun's
eye is all-seeing, and gifts of vision also fall under this sphere.

Heroes with the Sun Word may shed daylight at will up to 200 feet,
cannot be blinded or their vision impaired by darkness or mists, and
have an invincible defense against fire damage. Their vision can pierce
blindfolds or survive even the physical removal of their eyes.

Lesser Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker259}Body of Burning Light   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your brilliance makes you almost impossible to target, by
creatures who operate by means of vision. While you shine, your natural
AC is 3 against creatures with sight. Your weapons or unarmed attacks
count as a magical weapon with a range of 200 feet, and do a minimum of
1d10 damage. Your corona counts as natural sunlight for susceptible
creatures. Armor and shields don\'t aid this AC.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker260}Hasten to the Light   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Instantly appear in any place lit by
natural sunlight or your own radiance, provided it\'s within one mile.
You appear at the nearest valid light to your desired destination. This
gift can\'t move you more than a mile of total distance per hour.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker261}Hope of the Dawn   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You and allies within your general area gain a Morale of
12 and an invincible defense against magical emotional influence. Allied
NPCs gain +1 hit die and +1 to hit. Those in sight of you have an
instinctive awareness of your wishes, though they are not compelled to
obey.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker262}Illumine That Which Is   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your radiance limns magical effects on people, banishes
magical darkness, dispels mortal illusion, and reveals magical items.
Those with the gifts of Deception or Night may make a Spirit saving
throw to maintain their illusions or gloom.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker263}Purity of Brilliant Law   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Defensively dispel a hostile magical effect
on yourself or offensively dispel another gift for a round as if with a
miracle. This gift functions more swiftly than a conventional miracle of
dispelling, and the Effort need not be committed for so long.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker264}Sunlit Sight   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. Choose a place you've been that is currently lit directly
by the sun. While the Effort is committed, see and hear everything in
that place as if present. Your voice can be heard there by those
present.

Greater Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker265}Creation's First Light   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your vision penetrates any non-magical barrier, allowing
you to see anything and everything out to the horizon. Focusing on
something not in the immediate area requires a round. This vision
automatically penetrates illusions and sees the true shape of
shapeshifters. It cannot pierce the gifts of the Deception Word,
however.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker266}Purging Noonday Blaze   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. A burning light permanently banishes all
undesired low magic out to sight range. If the Effort is committed for a
day, it suppresses all offensive gifts or magical powers of a single
target for one round, as if by a successful miracle applied to each.
This gift can be used for such offensive dispelling only once per scene.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker267}Sunstrike   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. If the sun is in the sky, its radiance
strikes a desired visible foe for 1d10 fire damage per level of the
Godbound, This blaze will penetrate any roof or ceiling not proof
against divine gifts in order to strike the target. If the sun is not in
the sky the bolt does 1d6 damage per level. Creatures not of this world,
such as summoned entities, angels or Uncreated, always take 1d10 damage
per level and roll the damage twice to take the harshest result.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer049 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker268}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor053}Sword

The Word of the Sword is that of melee combat, of direct struggle
between the Godbound and their foes. Miracles of the Sword involve
unerring strokes, tremendous blows, or marvelous escapes from harm in
battle. While potent, these miracles do not work at range.

Heroes with the Sword Word treat all their weapon or unarmed attacks as
magical, cannot be disarmed, and can summon any melee weapon they've
ever used immediately to hand as an Instant action.

Lesser Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker269}Contempt of Distance   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------

Your movement action can take you to any point in movement range,
provided the path is unobstructed and there's a target to hit at the end
of the move. A hero could thus dash straight to a rooftop or balcony
without navigating the physical route there. Foes too far away to reach
in one round can be pursued over multiple rounds, but they
[must]{.CharOverride-2} be attacked once reached. This pursuit can even
extend into the air, supporting the hero until they defeat their enemy
or choose to disengage, whereupon they land safely at a point below.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker270}Nine Iron Walls   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. You have an invincible defense against all
physical attacks until the start of your next round. This defense does
not apply to environmental hazards, spells, or other non-attack forms of
harm. As with all Instants, this can be used even after an assailant has
rolled a successful hit.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker271}Steel Without End   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

All your melee weapon attacks are treated as magic weapons doing a
1d10+1 damage die, including unarmed attacks. As with all
weapon-boosting gifts, you may use any attribute to modify attacks made
in this way, provided you can explain how it is relevant to your style.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker272}Thirsting Razor   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You always hit lesser foes with your melee attacks. No
attack roll is necessary, but this benefit applies only to actual melee
weapon or unarmed attacks, and not to other effects that involve hitting
a foe to inflict a hostile effect.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker273}Through A Red Forest   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. While the Effort is committed, when fighting multiple
lesser foes or a Mob of them, you may choose to take damage as if from a
successful hit from one of them of the GM's choice. You then gain an
invincible defense against weapon or unarmed attacks from the rest of
these lesser foes until the start of your next turn.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker274}Unerring Blade   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort to the scene's end. Your current or next melee attack hits
on anything but a natural roll of 1 and does maximum damage. This strike
can penetrate any protection short of an invincible defense against the
weapon being used.

Greater Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker275}Cutting the Crimson Road   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Against foes of half or fewer hit dice than you have
levels, to a minimum of 1, your melee damage rolls are read straight and
always maximized. The overflow can be applied against any other foes
that fit the conditions and are within 10 feet. Against Mobs made up of
applicable creatures, you instead simply roll your damage die straight
without maximizing it. This gift does not affect Fray dice.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker276}Path Through War   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. So long as you don't make an attack roll or cast a
hostile effect that round, you have an invincible defense against all
weapon or unarmed attacks. You can still use your Fray die while under
this effect. This defense is not applicable to environmental, spell, or
magical effect damage. Once this gift is dropped or ended, it cannot be
re-activated during that same scene.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker277}Shattering Hand   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your melee damage rolls and Fray dice are always the
maximum possible. You can destroy barriers as thick as five feet of
stonework in front of you in one round's action, smashing them with a
blow or as part of your movement action. Magical substances may resist
this power.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer050 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker278}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor054}Time

Time is a complex Word, one ruling events of the past and future. While
temporal gifts can often see the future, such outcomes are not set.
Predictions can be overcome by events and choices, though some gifts of
Time allow the user to fix a future's certainty, unless their will is
overcome by a stronger power. Miracles of Time can alter the past and
rewrite prior events, but it is generally necessary to manipulate
specific events rather than simply decree a broad swath of history.
Temporal manipulation cannot kill people or erase things of great occult
power, but it can alter how past events played out.

Heroes with the Time Word always know the exact time, and are immune to
any uses of this Word to affect them or scry on them. They may set their
Wisdom to 16, or 18 if it's already 16 or higher.

Lesser Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker279}Echoes of the Past   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Choose a particular time or known event in
the past that occurred at this location and witness it as if you were
present.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker280}Immediate Foresight   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You cannot be surprised. Your natural armor class is 3, as you
instinctively avoid foreseen blows. Armor and shields don\'t aid this
AC.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker281}Look Forward   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. Ask a question about a situation's future
outcome or the future actions of a person you've seen before. The GM
gives a one-sentence answer regarding the most probable outcome or
actions that seems likely to them.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker282}Prophetic Insight   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. Make a prophecy about a particular event
involving a person present. It will come to pass if it is not completely
improbable. If it directly involves an unwilling worthy foe, they can
make a Spirit save to disrupt the effect. Events that immediately
involve more than a hundred people cannot be so ordained, nor can a
person's inevitable death or great ruin be foretold unless they count as
a lesser foe. Even then, they are allowed a Spirit saving throw.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker283}Reflex of Regret   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Replay your action for that round as if
your actions had never occurred. You can use this gift only once per
round, and you can't use it if you're dead or incapacitated.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker284}Withering Hour   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Your weapon, glance, or unarmed blows are treated as
magic weapons doing 1d10 damage out to a 200 foot range. Those injured
by this effect grow older or more decayed, even immortals fraying.
Instead of killing a victim with this, you can age them arbitrarily.

Greater Gifts

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker285}Hand on the Balance   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day, choose a single visible creature or object,
and define a particular outcome or event involving that target, however
broad or narrow it may be. If that outcome or event is ever about to
occur, you become instantly aware of it and can take one action as if
you were standing next to the target. You can attack the target,
manipulate an object, use a gift, invoke a miracle, or do anything else
you can do in one action, affecting the target and anyone else present,
though you are not actually there and cannot be perceived or affected.
This power can affect a given target only once per day, and you can\'t
have multiple applications of the gift on a single target.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker286}Sundered Moment   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Perform your action for the round, then
reset time to its beginning and perform another round's action. Choose
your preferred round; its outcomes become real while the other ceases to
exist, even if you perished in it. You remember both rounds, however.
Using this gift more than once per scene increases the Effort cost to a
day-long Commitment.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker287}Reweave Time   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and choose an event in the area which has
taken place in the last hour. You may reweave the past to produce a
different outcome to the event, provided the outcome you ordain is
possible. Such reweaving cannot kill or resurrect creatures, cannot
restore Committed Effort, and must be restricted to an event of no more
than 15 minutes duration. A hostile worthy foe involved in the events
may make a Spirit saving throw to foil the reweaving.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer051 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker288}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor055}Wealth

Wealth is the Word not only of gold, but of prosperity of all kinds.
Steady pay, full larders, warm clothes, and sturdy roofs are the purview
of this Word. Some of its powers interact with the Faction system on
page
[[134]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor135),
giving blessings or curses to whole cities or nations.

Some gifts of Wealth allow the creation of non-magical objects, and a
hero can use these powers to create great sums of gold or other precious
materials. As a general rule, these gifts can be used to create enough
Wealth to accomplish any immediate end desired, but the inflation caused
by such a sudden rush of fist-sized jewels will make further artificial
Wealth expenditures in the area useless for some time. A hero who
operates more slowly, using the gifts to create actual objects of
practical use, does not cause this sort of inflation. Such created
Wealth is useless for the purposes of exerting Dominion, and cannot be
spent for that end.

Heroes with the Wealth Word are never short of money, and can always
afford anything that costs 1 Wealth or less. They always have sufficient
food, drink, and clothing for themselves and their companions, drawing
it from nothingness if necessary.

Lesser Gifts

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker289}Craft to Make   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort. You can create or duplicate any mundane inanimate object
you've seen before in one round, provided it's no larger than a wagon.
The object is permanent if it is created mostly out of serviceable
preexisting materials. If you make its major parts from nothing, it
lasts only as long as the Effort is committed.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker290}Ever-Sufficient Provenance   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. You can produce any mundane objects or domesticated
animals you need as long as the Effort remains committed, enough to
outfit or horse one hundred people per level. The objects and creatures
vanish once the Effort is reclaimed. The objects must be no larger than
a horse, and the animals are docile and unfit for war, though they can
be butchered or put to other normal uses. If the Effort is left
committed long enough for them to be eaten, they will still nourish
their consumers after the Effort is reclaimed.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker291}Flawless Reproduction   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort and touch a non-magical object or domestic animal no
larger than a large wagon. Every minute, a perfect duplicate of the
thing appears somewhere near the original until the Effort is reclaimed.
This duplicate persists even after the Effort is reclaimed.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker292}Prosperity\'s Abundance   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Spend the Wealth necessary to purchase a generally-available object or
service, with a minimum of 1 point, and have it appear instantly.
Services are performed by unseen hands to a good quality of work, taking
as long as it would take to execute the work normally. Only \"real\"
Wealth can power this gift, not Wealth created by magic or gifts.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker293}Sustain the Multitude   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort and bless a faction with a Power score no larger than 2,
affecting a city at most. The faction gains the Feature \"We always have
enough to survive\", providing them with sufficient supplies of food,
clothing, and other needs regardless of the bleakness of their
surroundings or recent losses. This Feature can be used to defend during
relevant conflicts, but it cannot be sacrificed on a loss, and lasts as
long as the Godbound keeps their Effort Committed.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker294}Wither the Purse   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene and target a victim in sight. Their finances
suffer immediate and drastic loss, whether from thieves, arson,
misfortune, or bad trade. They lose one Wealth point worth of
possessions per level of the Godbound. Worthy foes can make a Spirit
save to resist. Those who steward others' money or have far-flung
possessions lose only their own personal funds or those in the immediate
area. If used against someone who directly controls a faction\'s wealth
or facilities, their faction loses the benefit of one
economically-related Feature the victim oversees for the next faction
turn.

Greater Gifts

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker295}Forever Sufficient   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

You and your companions always have whatever mundane objects or mounts
you need, provided they\'re no larger than a small sailing ship. Luck,
foresight, and strange provenance conspire to bring you your desires
exactly when you need them, every object needed appearing in their
pockets, packs, or nearby surroundings. These objects tend to vanish or
be lost after you stop needing them, and they cannot replicate precise
other objects such as keys or seals.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker296}Golden God\'s Hand   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort and curse or bless a faction or community with a Power
score no larger than half your level, rounded up. You may either grant
them a beneficial Feature having to do with prosperity or wealth, or you
may suppress an existing Feature they have that relies on money or large
amounts of resources. Granted Features can defend, but cannot be
sacrificed on a loss. Empyrean Wards do not hinder this effect unless
the entire area being cursed or blessed is protected by the ward. The
curse or blessing manifests very rapidly in the course of a day, and
lasts for as long as the Effort remains Committed.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker297}Thieves' Bane   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

Lesser foes are utterly unable to successfully rob you or your
companions by stealth or fraudulent bargaining. Whenever any worthy foe
attempts to steal from or monetarily defraud you or your companions, you
catch an immediate vision of the attempt and can take a single action
against the thief as if you were standing next to them, though they can
do nothing against you in return. If multiple thieves are involved, you
get one action against each. Thieves who are worthy foes can make a
Spirit saving throw to escape your notice.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer052 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor056}Magic
and Spellcasting

There are two major forms of magic: that of the lesser arts and the
secrets of high theurgy. "Low" magic is a remnant art, a discipline of
scraps and pieces assembled from the wreckage of the Former Empires. It
is dependent upon its traditions, those arcane legacies that have
preserved its remains and adapted it to the limited resources of this
latter age. "High" magic is something deeper and stronger. Theurgy, as
it is called, is the art of appealing to the true powers of creation and
invoking the deep laws by which all things were made. While many with
the natural aptitude can take up the laborious traditions of magic, only
Godbound and the mightiest arcanists can wield true theurgy.

Preparing and Casting
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker298}Low
Magic

A hero can use low magic if they have a Fact related to their mastery of
a tradition. While ordinary mortals must painstakingly master each tier
of expertise, a hero with a relevant Fact can cast all the spells of
their known traditions. A single Fact cannot normally grant access to
more than one tradition. Lesser sorcerers may know only some of the arts
of their tradition and require a mentor or grimoire to reveal all the
capabilities of their expertise.

Unless specified otherwise, casting a spell requires both a lengthy
ritual and certain basic tools and supplies. These inscribed charms,
sanctified tokens, auspicious materials, and other occult paraphernalia
are not difficult to acquire, but if the caster finds themselves
stripped of their belongings they will need some opportunity to
reassemble their tools. The length of the ritual required depends on the
difficulty of the spell. Apprentice spells require 15 minutes of work,
adept spells require an hour, master-level spells need four hours, and
invoking the magic of an archmage requires an all-day working. These
rituals are ruined by interruption or damage, with the spell fizzling
uselessly.

Some traditions are capable of suspending almost-completed rituals,
storing their virtue in some token, elixir, or parchment. Only the
caster can activate the power within these items, but they can be
deployed as their action for the turn, going off at the beginning of
their next turn if not spoiled by damage. The caster can prepare up to
two spells of this kind per hit die or level. Details of the spell, such
as targets, range, or exact effects are determined when the caster
unleashes the effect. If the caster has mastered multiple traditions
that allow prepared spells, they still can't prepare more than two per
hit die. The initiate can always cast spells more slowly if the
situation allows it.

Other traditions allow a spontaneous choice of effects, casting a spell
with no more than a brief invocation and the right occult implement to
hand, the spell taking an action to cast and going off at the start of
their next turn. Injury before the spell goes off spoils it. While these
traditions can still be used more slowly at need, an initiate of the art
may cast one spell per hit die or level before they need at least an
hour's respite to restore their energies. Note that just because the
tradition can be used spontaneously, it doesn't mean that it also
teaches how to store power as a prepared object. In the case that a
sorcerer also uses a tradition that allows prepared spells, each two
prepared spells decreases the allowed instant spells by one. Thus, a 3
hit die adept with two prepared spells from one tradition could freely
cast two more from another tradition before their powers were exhausted
for a time.

Each tradition gives examples of the kind of spells usable at a given
level of mastery. Other spells of similar theme and power can also be
cast by the sorcerer, given GM agreement.

Low Magic Capabilities

While some traditions have special arts, most spells have certain
general limits. These limits can be blurred at the GM's discretion, but
most sorcerous workings must abide by these strictures.

-   Spells can't affect anything outside the sorcerer's presence, at
    most out to the maximum range of their line of sight.
-   Spell effects don't last longer than the next sunrise, though their
    consequences can linger. Speeding a natural process such as healing
    produces a lasting cure, and subtle blessings or curses might last
    as long as a week.
-   Spells can't create permanent matter. Summoned objects disappear at
    sunrise, and conjured food and drink provides only temporary
    satiation.

Individual traditions have learned ways to sidestep these limitations,
invoking ancient pacts and secret techniques to violate the bans. These
methods are unique and specific to each tradition, however, and
mastering the secrets of one doesn't mean that they can be used with
another path.

Low Magic and Gifts

Mortal magic is unable to directly overcome gifts. The dispellations of
a curse-eater cannot undo the blights of the Word of Luck, and even the
strongest mortal curse must dissolve before a miracle wrought by some
appropriate Word. Magical wards designed to fend off a particular type
of danger also fail in the face of a hero's powers; a fire sorcerer's
magical shield against heat can't hold back the blaze of a chosen of
Fire, and a mind-wizard's mental defenses can't prevent the powers of
Command from taking hold. At most, the GM might grant a +4 bonus on
their saving throw if any are allowed.

Summoning Creatures

Some magical traditions allow for the summoning of servitor creatures.
Under most circumstances, a sorcerer can summon no more than one
creature at a time. Supernatural creatures manifest out of thin air,
while natural beasts travel to the summoner over the course of the
ritual. Of the low magic traditions depicted here, only the Cinnabar
Order and the theotechnicians teach these techniques as a normal part of
training. Other traditions either don\'t have the art at all or else
students must learn it from a reclusive master or a long-vanished tome
of occult secrets.

For traditions that allow such summoning, an apprentice caster can call
only very minor imps or sprites of no use in combat and no consequential
abilities. An adept can summon a 2 HD creature, a master can summon a 4
HD creature, and an archmage can call up an 8 HD creature.

The Bestiary chapter provides example combat statistics for summoned
entities on page
[[162]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor166).
Summoned creatures will obey within the parameters of their nature, but
will not act suicidally unless they are automatons or other entities
without self-will. Most summoned beings are intelligent enough to follow
orders in a rational way, though not all of them communicate in ways
that humans understand.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor057}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker299}Theurgy
and Invocati0ns

Only Godbound, mighty supernatural creatures, and archmages of profound
learning are capable of wielding theurgy. Godbound must know the gifts
of the Sorcery Word in order to invoke it, while supernatural entities
might have learned it in ages past or simply have it inscribed upon
their souls. Archmages who learn it often do so only through terrible
pacts and abominable promises to the powers of Uncreated Night. In the
end, many of these wretched mortals are not so much wielders of
theurgy's power, but mere tools through which their patron's will is
done.

Theurgy is divided into three degrees of initiation. A theurge of the
Gate has mastered the beginning of celestial wisdom, and has engraved
the necessary pacts of entrance upon the bones of his spirit. A theurge
of the Way has taken in the deep patterns of Heaven's ways and begun to
understand the truths that underpin all creation. A theurge of the
Throne has turned their vision upward to the empty seat of the One, and
has encompassed as much of the world's secret meaning as any lesser mind
can hope to bear.

Each degree of initiation allows the theurge to master
[invocations]{.CharOverride-3}, special spells that draw from the deep
laws of the world. Each invocation is burdensome to learn and master,
but once mastered it remains forever with the theurge. Some mortal
sorcerers find it necessary to have additional tomes or impedimenta to
call on their theurgy, but Godbound and like creatures need no such
things.

Learning an invocation of the Gate requires a week's effort under the
tutelage of a theurge who knows the invocation, or a week's study of an
instructional grimoire. An invocation of the Way requires a month of
such practice, while an invocation of the Throne can only be mastered
with a full three-month season of effort.

Once an invocation has been mastered, it may be used whenever the
circumstances permit. If the invocation is cast slowly, with care and
focus, it requires no expenditure of Effort. Such casting requires an
hour for an invocation of the Gate, half a day for an invocation of the
Way, and a full day's casting for one of the Throne. Any disturbance to
the caster while this is being done will spoil the invocation.

There are times when a theurge doesn't have the leisure for such careful
preparation. They can instead cast more quickly, taking only one round
per tier of initiation, with the invocation activating at the start of
their next turn after the casting is done. This swift use of power
requires them to Commit Effort for the scene, however, and the spell
will be spoilt and the effort wasted if they are hurt while casting it.

When nothing but immediate results will do, the theurge may cast
instantly, hurling the invocation as their action for the round. While
this cannot be interrupted, it requires that they Commit Effort for the
day, and suffer a variable amount of damage as the unmediated fires of
creation roar through their unprepared forms. It inflicts a 1d6 damage
die for invocations of the Gate, 1d12 for those of the Way, and 1d20 for
the Throne. No gift or power can negate this damage without
simultaneously spoiling the invocation.

Theurgy Capabilities

Theurgy is much more powerful than low magic. Things it creates and
enchantments it lays will persist indefinitely unless otherwise
indicated. It can reach beyond the boundaries of a single realm and even
plumb the depths of Uncreated Night. It can create new forms of life and
alter old ones, bringing forth new races of creatures that breed true.
There seems to be no limit to the power that theurgy is theoretically
capable of accomplishing.

The practical limit of theurgy is that even Godbound find it almost
impossible to devise new invocations. To do so is an enormous work, one
requiring grim focus, great expenditures of Dominion, and voyages deep
within the ruins of Heaven and Hell. Almost all theurges are forced to
rely upon the invocations they have learned from existing arts, either
from the rare instructor in its deep mysteries or from tomes and
instructional relics found in lost places.

Theurgy is also no substitute for Influence or gifts in working large,
long-term alterations upon a place or situation. The marvels created by
theurgy may be long-lasting, but they are rarely so perfectly suited to
a theurge's needs that they obviate other forms of effort to attain
their ends. More work must be done if its changes are to be stable.

Theurgy and Gifts

While theurgy is far more powerful than low magic, it is still no match
for divine gifts. Theurgy may be dispelled as mortal magic is dispelled,
and its powers cannot banish the workings of gifts unless specified
otherwise by the invocation. Some invocations truly can be used to
overpower gifts, but these tend to be very specific arts or very focused
in their application. Unless otherwise specified, theurgy is treated as
mortal magic for all interactions with gifts.

Arcane Connections

Some theurgic invocations require the use of an "arcane connection" with
the target. Such connections include hair, blood, spittle or other
bodily fluid, or possessions of intimate significance to the target. At
least an ounce of the substance must be obtained to be of use in magic.
As some low magic traditions require their use as well, most educated
persons of import know not to allow such things to leave their
possession or go unburnt.

An arcane connection goes stale rapidly, and must come into a sorcerer's
possession within a day and a night after it is taken from the subject.
Once in hand, the sorcerer can conduct the necessary minor rituals to
keep it spiritually potent for as long as it's required. Such preserved
connections can be stolen from them, however, and used by a different
sorcerer.

An arcanist can acquire multiple arcane connections to a single target,
but they must be taken from them on different occasions at least a day
and a night apart. Using an arcane connection in a spell usually spoils
it, rendering it useless thereafter.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer053 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor058}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor059}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor060}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker300}Academy
of Thought

The Academicians of Thought have their greatest school at the Bronze
Collegium in the great city of Xilong in the Dulimbai Regency, where
they study their arts alongside the chroniclers of dead realms and the
reckless investigators of god-husks and lost artifices. They proudly
claim to be heritors of the philosophers of selfhood that aided in the
selection and priming of individuals for their eventual transformation
into the Made Gods. As such, they are a notoriously atheistic tradition,
ever prying into unseemly matters and profane secrets, and the
ancestor-cultists of Dulimbai regard them with distinct mistrust.

Academicians pride themselves on the sublimity of their tradition. Its
powers may be invoked spontaneously, and are so subtle that only another
Academician can tell when a spell is being cast. This elegance comes at
a price, however, as such quick castings force an excessive surge of
magical energy through the sorcerer's brain tissues and leave them
faintly debilitated for a time thereafter. Each spell cast spontaneously
applies a cumulative -1 penalty to all hit rolls, attribute checks and
saving throws until the caster can rest for half an hour. A caster can
avoid incrementing this increasing penalty by routing the power through
softer tissues and accepting a 1d6 damage die of injury.

Aside from this complication, the arts of the Academician are extremely
cerebral in nature. None of its spells can affect the physical world in
any way; they function only on the brains of living creatures,
intelligent or otherwise. Lesser foes get no saving throw against their
spells, but worthy enemies may make a Spirit save to resist them.

Apprentice

Sense surface emotions in a subject, understand the speaker of a foreign
language, reroll a saving throw against a mental effect as an Instant
spell, or have a brief mental conversation with a willing target in
sight.

Adept

Project emotions to a subject, create a mental link of communication
with a willing target that extends out to a mile, read surface thoughts
and strong images in a target, or trick a target into seeing or hearing
something illusory.

Master

Control a target's emotions fully within their usual range of passions,
compel a target to obey for a scene in any non-harmful way, implant a
subconscious suggestion they will carry out later that day if it is not
against their nature, or read well-remembered memories on a specific
topic from a target

Archmage

Inflict 2d6 psychic damage dice on a target, compel a target to obey for
a scene in any non-suicidal way, or for a day in any
not-especially-objectionable way, or deeply probe into even forgotten
memories on a particular topic.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor061}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker301}Cinnabar
Order

A priesthood of scourging flame from the red sand deserts of the Oasis
States, the Cinnabar Order works its ways in flame-shrines and
monasteries of ash. Their adepts bring sourceless fire to the
inhabitants of the great pyramid-cities. Each likely boy or girl is
obliged to spend long years in study before they are permitted to leave
the shrine where they were trained. Some are enlisted by a city in need
of another flame-sorcerer, while others travel to the wet lands for
their damp green secrets.

They revere the dead gods of fire and heat, mastering their ancient
liturgies to call forth the flame that their people need to survive in a
land where there is little to burn. Their arts are quick and easy to
invoke, and they may cast spells spontaneously.

While the Cinnabar Order is a vital part of the life of the great
pyramid-arcologies of the Oasis States, its members are viewed with a
mix of fear and distaste. The ancient adepts of the Order were strongly
opposed to the transhuman breeding experiments that continue to this day
among the families of the pyramids, and their refusal to cooperate in
lending Cinnabar Order pupils to the genetic stock won them the
displeasure of the cities\' sorcerous flesh-shapers. The arcane
descendants of these ancient fire-magi preserve their distance from the
eugenic experiments of the Oasian nobility, obliging the Order\'s
leaders to remain in the security of their ash monasteries.

Despite this ancient hostility, the pyramids still need the magical
fires that the Cinnabar Order provides in order to maintain their
massive enchanted hydroponic gardens. As such, they are paid in
necessities for their monasteries and maintain a certain legal impunity
under Oasian law. So long as they don\'t interfere too overtly with the
nobility, they and their servants may ignore almost all other laws.

Apprentice

Every apprentice of the Cinnabar Order is skilled in desert survival,
the finding of water, the liturgies of the dead red gods, and the
subtleties of all things that burn and explode. They are not taught any
magical secrets until they have mastered all these things, however.

Adept

Adepts can make torches or candles burn all day without being consumed,
become immune to fires smaller than a bonfire, light a nimbus of fire
around their limbs (turning them into 1d6 weapons), summon 2 HD Cinnabar
Sparks from the bestiary chapter, or cause a one foot cube of matter to
become flammable regardless of its composition.

Master

Masters of the Cinnabar Order can hurl bolts of flame (1d10), become
immune to mundane flames, extinguish a fire no larger than a house fire,
create a nimbus of flame for a scene that burns everyone around them
within 10 feet for 1d4 damage, control the burning of a fire no larger
than a bonfire, summon 4 HD Cinnabar Sparks, or command creatures of
flame to briefly obey them for a scene.

Archmage

Archmages can hurl exploding balls of flame that do 2d10 damage to
everything within a 20' radius of their landing point, become immune
even to magical flames, summon an 8 HD Cinnabar Conflagration, or
extinguish all fires around them in a 50' radius.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker302}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor062}Curse-Eaters

Grim heritors of ancient theotechnic disaster recovery methods,
"curse-eaters" are an informal brotherhood of initiates trained in the
lifting and banishing of hostile magical effects. While they are honored
for their utility in dispelling dangerous magic, the wise also
understand that they can lay down the same blights they lift up. Most
are glad to receive them and glad to see them go once the work is done.

A loose fraternity of these practitioners is found in the Raktine
Confederacy, some in service to the Black Academies while others serve
as freelance defenders of the peasants. A few curse-eaters are also
found in Ancalia, where their secrets formed the basis for the
Invocatant order of Ancalian knighthood. Their special expertise is
sometimes requested when the Invocatants can\'t deal with a problem
alone.

The blights of curse-eaters can take many forms: unluck, sickness, or
even death in the case of the mightiest banes. These curses will usually
last for a month, if strong or overt, or a year for more subtle
afflictions. The very mightiest curses can last generations, though
these are usually only enough to afflict a victim rather than kill them.
Lesser curses can either affect a specific type of action and force a -4
penalty on d20 rolls for it, or be general ill-luck that applies a -2
penalty to all d20 rolls. Greater curses can force automatic failure of
specific actions for a few times before they unravel, or simply cause
the automatic failure of the first attempt at the action each scene
before applying a -4 penalty to further attempts. Greater curses can
also inflict severe, lasting sicknesses, or result in the almost-certain
eventual deaths of lesser foes.

Curse-eaters can prepare their spells beforehand in small tokens which
they crush or break to release the effect. When they turn a curse back
on its caster or detect a blight's enactor, they can reach any distance
to the sorcerer responsible for it; the magic itself gives them a
connection which defies normal limits of range.

Apprentice

Apprentice curse-eaters can detect the presence of magic, sense and
identify curses and their effects, or dispel low magic effects on their
own person.

Adept

Adepts can dispel low magic on a target, receive a vision of the person
who laid a curse on someone, or lay a curse on someone that can last as
much as a year and inflict subtle but significant hindrance.

Master

Those who have mastered the curse-eater\'s arts can dispel low magic on
a building or structure and everyone in it, create a shield that negates
the next hostile low magic spell, place a greater curse on someone that
will probably get them killed within a month or debilitated
indefinitely, or place a lesser curse on an entire group of people in
your presence.

Archmage

The rare curse-eater who lives long enough to become an archmage can
create a shield that reflects the next hostile low magic spell back at
the caster, place a greater curse on a lesser foe that will kill them in
moments, place a lesser curse that will dilute as it travels down to
their heirs for seven generations, or lift a curse from someone and send
it back at its caster.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor063}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker303}Empty
Way

Some see the secrets of the ancients as a path to power and control.
They wield magic as a tool, using the ancient invocations and occult
prayers to compel the tattered remnants of divinity to obey their
purposes. The adepts of the Empty Way turned their back on such profane
behavior long centuries ago. Since then they have kept to themselves in
isolated monasteries and remote hermitages, taking as disciples those
souls who sought refuge from the world and a path toward perfection of
the soul.

Adepts of the Empty Way are found throughout Arcem, though most often as
Raktian hermits or monastics who follow a Uniter version of the
doctrine, or Toban lamas and their disciples who use their arts to
defend and advance the interests of their monastery. Individual mystical
practitioners are also found in Dulimbai, along with a scattering of
Lomite atheist-monks in the far north.

The magic of the Empty Way is quick to employ, and may be cast
spontaneously. It requires no material instruments whatsoever, not even
when it is cast as a ritual. The sages of this path obstinately renounce
the use of magic as a tool to affect the outside world, however, and so
spells of the Empty Way only ever affect the caster. They may then
choose to use their newfound strength to act in the world, but their
philosophers consider that a very different prospect than that of the
direct employ of sorcery.

Initiates of the Empty Way symbolize their renunciation of direct
influence on the world by their adoption of a particular taboo, whether
celibacy, poverty, rigid dietary bans, strict obedience to a superior,
lengthy periods of prayer each day, or some other stricture. Breaking
this taboo or neglecting this duty costs them all use of their powers
until they can spend a full day in meditation and purification.

Those of the Empty Way who learn another tradition's magic may use that
magic normally, though other adepts of the path are apt to view them as
very bad believers for meddling with magic that way.

Apprentice

The apprentice can cast spells to gain immunity to hot or cold weather,
ignore hunger and thirst for a day, become impervious to pain and able
to fight on for one round after reaching zero hit dice or hit points, or
turn their unarmed attacks into 1d6 weapons for a scene.

Adept

The adept\'s spells can turn unarmed attacks into 1d8 weapons, grant
them a natural armor class of 5 for a scene, leap up to sixty feet
horizontally or half that vertically, gain immunity to natural flame or
frost, or heal 1 hit die or hit point of damage as an Instant action.

Master

The sage master\'s spells can purge disease or poison from the blood,
grant them a natural armor class of 3 for a scene, levitate up or down
at their full movement rate for a scene, see clearly even in perfect
darkness, or satiate their need for food, sleep, and drink for the day.

Archmage

An archmage may turn unarmed attacks into 1d10 weapons, turn invisible
for a scene or until they take a vigorous action, become impervious to
non-magical weapon attacks for a scene so long as they take no hostile
action, restore youthful vigor for the day regardless of age, or gain
immunity to mortal mind-affecting magic for the day.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker304}Hedge
Magic

A practice that requires years of laborious study, hedge magic teaches
its pupils the subtle knowledge of the common folk, their cures and
planting-times and luck-charms. In most places this tradition is thickly
encrusted with the superstitions and traditions of the local
practitioners, leaving a vast amount of effort to be expended before any
true magic is learned.

While almost any adequately clever man or woman can learn to use the
disjointed arts of the hedge magician, it takes time and patient labor
to learn the craft. Apprentices and adepts actually have no magical
powers at all, and are simply well-versed in all the knowledge necessary
for a village wise-man or wise-woman. Treat familiarity with this
tradition as a helpful Fact when such knowledge is relevant to an
attribute check. Hedge magic takes the usual ritual time to cast.

Hedge mages are found throughout Arcem. Almost every hamlet worth a name
has at least an apprentice of the art in residence, though the vast
majority of these \"mages\" have no magical talent whatsoever. Adepts
are the most commonly found, with most of those rare few that have
actual arcane potential never getting the opportunity to develop magic.
Only when their teacher is truly gifted as well do they have the chance
to learn the deeper secrets of roots, seasons, and the management of
troublesome neighbors. Of course, having true magic can be a curse when
those neighbors start demanding miracles from you.

Apprentice

Apprentice hedge magicians study herbs, livestock, the rudiments of
fortunetelling, and the fabrication of the necessary tools and charms
for later work. No true magic is learned at this level of experience.
Most are apprenticed young and have mastered this level of expertise by
their eighteenth birthday.

Adept

Adepts are proficient healers and herbalists, and talented at dealing
with humans and animals alike. They know much of managing people,
keeping the common folk in due awe of their learning without promising
too much or inspiring excessive dread. Most villages have hedge
magicians of this level of expertise, with knowledge but no true magic
at their command.

Master

This degree is rarely ever learned before an adept's fiftieth winter.
The magician can perform true magic now, albeit of a modest and subtle
type. They can cure sick livestock and minor human ailments, ensure
wounds heal cleanly, find lost objects within familiar terrain, bring
luck or misfortune to a specific endeavor (+/-2 to relevant attribute
checks), or perform rituals that restore vigor and wakefulness to a
group.

Archmage

Only the oldest and wisest of hedge mages attain to this degree of
mastery. They can break mortal curses, miraculously heal physical wounds
for 1d6 hit dice of healing, cure any non-magical diseases, bless or
curse an undertaking so as to roll twice on one attribute check and take
the better or worse, identify the general properties of magical objects
or effects, bewitch people to friendliness or enmity, or foretell a very
likely near future for a person. Any healing requires that the recipient
Commit Effort for the day to assimilate the power. Those without listed
Effort can benefit from healing once per day.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor064}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker305}Merciful
Hand

In the wake of the Last War the loss of life was incalculable. Where
only some of the secrets of the past could be preserved, the arts of
magical healing were among those most often rescued. Ancient divine
protocols of succor were passed down among numerous nations and peoples,
and the ensuing body of knowledge came to be known in many lands as the
Merciful Hand. These adepts are honored in all civilized lands, and only
monsters or the truly barbarous would dare to harm them. Custom demands
that they give at least an hour or two of their labor wherever they
might stay the night.

Their hospice-academies are rare, but are invariably well-supported by
the local nobility, though in some lands this closeness has become an
unhealthily incestuous bond between the Hand and the nobility. In these
places only apprentices of suitably good breeding are allowed to enter
the academy, thus neglecting suitable candidates of less glorious
lineage and leaving the hospice much more interested in the concerns of
the great. Given how few have the magical gifts required, this can make
an adept of the Hand even rarer than they are now.

The tradition's spells are potent, but have no power to harm a person or
affect an unwilling target. Its initiates can prepare some of the more
commonly-needed spells beforehand in elixirs and poultices.

Apprentice

The apprentice engages in study of the healing arts and beneficial
herbs, with no true magic learned at this level yet. This skill does
apply as a useful Fact when performing medical services, however.

Adept

The adept knows charms to stabilize the gravely wounded, cure non-lethal
diseases, numb pain, alleviate non-crippling symptoms, and magically
identify even very esoteric diseases.

Master

The charms of the master cure 1d6 points of physical damage to hit
points or hit dice, cure even lethal diseases, bring gravely-wounded
sorts back onto their feet and functional so long as they're not further
harmed, correct lamed limbs and damaged but essentially-intact organs,
and grant blessings to protect infection by mundane diseases.

Archmage

The mighty spells of the archmage can cure 2d6 physical damage, cure
even magical diseases, regrow missing limbs and body parts, and provide
blessings to protect against infection by magical diseases. Even so,
there are some dire sicknesses that cannot be cured even by an archmage
of the Merciful Hand, particularly those magical biological weapons
unleashed by some of the more merciless civilizations that fought in the
Last War.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker306}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor065}Seers
of the Bright Eye

The making of the Made Gods required a more than mortal awareness of the
flow of arcane energies and divine numina. While the rarefied
excellencies of awareness that went into creating these artificial gods
is long since lost, the Seers of the Bright Eye have managed to retain
the more prosaic arts of foretelling and far-seeing that win them their
current coin and influence.

Lesser Seers are little more than street-corner fortune-tellers, using a
few small arts to puzzle out what a petitioner wants to be told of the
future. In cities were several dwell, they usually form together into
formal guilds of oracles, the better to avoid treading on each others'
prophecies and to train apprentices in the art. These novices are often
recruited from likely urchins, and are little more than slave labor.
Many of them have no actual magical talent whatsoever, and make their
fortune with a glib tongue and a skill at cold reading.

Some Seers with actual talent or determination refine their abilities to
truly behold the future and cast their senses beyond their immediate
surroundings. While the future is always mutable, they can gain hints of
what is to come and visions of likely future events. This gifted elite
finds service in the courts of nobles and princes, though most are
regularly forced to prove the strength of their gifts by their
suspicious patrons.

This gift is hindered by the relatively simple warding practices that
can serve to blind a Seer's vision. Any location wrought with these
wards becomes impenetrable to a Seer's magic or future sight. Any
competent occult adept knows how to lay these wards, but they also
require regular tending to maintain their power. Exceptionally powerful
and costly wards can last indefinitely, however, so long as they remain
physically intact.

Apprentice

The apprentice can determine likely immediate good or bad outcomes from
a choice, detect curses or magic, pinpoint the time and location of the
caster, and identify a person's predominant character traits if they
have been seen or their birth date is known.

Adept

The adept can gain brief visions of familiar people and their
surroundings, identify magic items and standing spells, get visions of
important events likely to happen to them in the next week, overhear the
sounds of a remote place they've visited before, and locate lost objects
familiar to them. Such scrying never lasts more than a half-hour per
spell cast.

Master

The master can locate people they've seen or had carefully described to
them, ask questions about probable futures and receive yes or no
answers, gain visions of where to go to find something, and scry distant
locations known to them. Repeated queries about a single future topic
tend to distort the readings, however.

Archmage

Archmages can penetrate weak wards against divination, such as those
laid down by occultists of less than master expertise in their low magic
tradition. They can also locate people or objects on a casual
description, provide a detailed oracular description of a likely
near-future event, or create a movable scrying point in a distant
location. Their scrying spells last for an hour each at most.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor066}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker307}Theotechnicians

The Made Gods required a priesthood of theotechnical servitors, trained
in the due maintenance and preservation of the elaborate edifices of
occult artifice that supported their divine power. Each god had his or
her own maintenance priesthood, of course, but the shared principles and
secrets of the tradition have long since survived their original
patrons. Today, the Bright Republic still maintains a reliable tradition
of theotechnology in its sophisticated etheric engines and industrial
infrastructure, but the deepest secrets of the arts are preserved by the
jungle sages of the Thousand Gods.

In the present day, theotechnicians serve as engineers and artificers to
the great and small, with even their apprentices capable of erecting
sturdy structures and repairing damaged tools and buildings. They are in
greatest demand when relics of the Made Gods are unearthed, or ancient
artifice-marvels need repair and recharging. Most Bright Republic towns
have at least one theotechnician on hand to tend to their marvels, and
cities make use of them to preserve ancient wonders that no person
living can reproduce. The god-tribes of the Thousand Gods have even more
such learned men and women, kept constantly in service by their
merciless divine tyrants.

While applicable to relics and wonders of all kinds, theotechnical work
is not cheap. No work can be done unless the theotechnician has access
to substantial resources, a minimum of Wealth 1 for any serious work
beyond minor repairs and identifications. Its automata and artificing
work remain functional as long as they are intact, however, and do not
vanish or shut down at dawn. The Wealth used to make the gear must be
natural; conjured components spoil the magic.

Apprentice

Apprentices learn no magic, but become skilled in architecture,
tinkering, and the crafting of delicate work such as a jeweler or
goldsmith might do. Those of the Thousand Gods focus more on learning of
the myriad divinities of the land and their specific powers and
servants.

Adept

Adept theotechnicians treat their art as sufficient justification for
being able to create minor magic items as described in the Treasures
chapter. Each month of their determined labor counts as 1 Dominion point
for the creation of a minor magic item, though they cannot create them
in bulk as Godbound can or create arms and armor more powerful than
those with a +1 bonus. Adepts can identify the function and powers of
such minor magic items.

Master

A master theotechnician can fashion up to +2 weapons and armor, and at a
cost of 1 Wealth point and a week\'s work they can build a 4 HD minor
servitor. This servitor is not sentient, but it will obey the master
intelligently.

Archmage

Archmages of the theotechnicians can build +3 weapons and armor and can
fabricate 8 HD servitors with a month\'s work and 2 Wealth points of
expenditure. Archmages automatically succeed at all saving throws forced
on them by effects generated by minor magical items.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer054 .Sidebar}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker308}Healing
Magic and Effects

Whenever a spell or other effect heals hit point damage for a target,
that target normally must Commit Effort to the end of the day, or else
their body is unable to support the surge of magical force and no
benefit is gained. If the healer is curing an NPC or monster that has no
listed Effort, assume that they can do so once per day at most.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer055 .Single-Column}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------- -------------- ------------------
  Invocation                                                                                                                              Time to Learn   Cast Slowly   Cast Quickly   Cast Instantly
  Gate                                                                                                                                    1 week          1 hour        1 round\*      1d6 damage die#
  Way                                                                                                                                     1 month         12 hours      2 rounds\*     1d12 damage die#
  Throne                                                                                                                                  3 months        1 day         3 rounds\*     1d20 damage die#
  \* indicates the caster must also Commit Effort to the end of the scene, \# indicates the caster must also Commit Effort for the day.                                                
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------- -------------- ------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer056 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor067}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor068}Theurgic
Invocations

These are simply some of the most common invocations known among the
realms. Other spells can be found in long-lost libraries or located amid
the sigils engraved on Heaven's walls. A few secrets are even to be
found in the shape of arcane artifacts, their branchings and twistings
sculpted as metaphors for the arcane procedures required for their
invocation.

  --------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------
  Invocations of the Gate     
                              [Barred Gates of Forbiddance]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Beacon of Celestial Purity]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [The Bright God\'s Canticle]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [The Excision of Days]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Kiss of the Crane]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Open the Night Road]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Pore of Hell]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Ranks of Pale Bone]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Seal of Regnal Dominion]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Sunder the Lesser Spell]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [The Tireless Iron Cavalcade]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [The Trumpet of Far Utterance]{.CharOverride-3}
  Invocations of the Way      
                              [Curse of the Blighted Strand]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [The Deafening Word of Truth]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Delaying the Coming of Dawn]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [The Far-Distant Lance]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Glyph of Crowned Impunity]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Mirrored Wheel of the Seasons]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Path to the Bright Sanctum]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Shutting the Dark Way]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Sign of Avulsive Banishment]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Sunder the Greater Spell]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Tumulus of Sanctified Night]{.CharOverride-3}
  Invocations of the Throne   
                              [A Heart\'s Desire]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Auspice of the Divine King]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Directed Convulsion of Law]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Gifts of Spring and Winter]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [The Grinding Teeth of God]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Legion of Marching Clay]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Palace of the Sorcerer-Prince]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Pierce the Veil of Night]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Summon the Black Iron Servitor]{.CharOverride-3}
                              [Sunder Every Sorcery]{.CharOverride-3}
  --------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor069}Invocations
of the Gate

Barred Gates of Forbiddance

By means of an arcane connection the theurge may forbid a subject from
entering a particular place. The banned location may be as small as a
particular room or as large as a nation, but it must be a single
recognizable entity. If the subject is within the area forbidden when
the invocation is cast, they must immediately flee to the nearest viable
border by the quickest possible route. If brought into it against their
will, they can do nothing but flee at the first opportunity. The theurge
need not be present inside the area to be warded when casting the spell,
but must know its location and general dimensions.

Lesser foes are unable to resist this spell, while worthy enemies may
make a Spirit saving throw to resist the forbiddance. The forbiddance
lasts until it is dispelled or the caster lifts the ban.

Beacon of Celestial Purity

The theurge shines with a brilliantly clarifying radiance that gently
illumines everything within one hundred feet. The light purifies and
cleanses everything it touches, rendering objects clean and neutralizing
poisons and disease sources, albeit it does not cure afflicted persons
or banish magic. Any lies or intentional misdirections spoken within the
light become visible as a plume of smoking filth rising from the
speaker's mouth. The lies of others cause painful feedback to the
theurge, and inflict a 1d6 damage die each time a lie is spoken. This
damage cannot be avoided or negated. The light lasts as long as the
caster desires it and remains conscious. Those with the Word of
Deception can speak lies without being discovered by this spell.

The Bright God's Canticle

This invocation requires that the caster sing, forbidding other speech
or spellcasting while it is maintained. So long as the caster remains
singing, those around them are unable to acknowledge their presence, or
the presence of allies who remain close to the theurge. Observers are
aware of the sorcerer, but they can do nothing to act on that awareness
unless the invocation is ended. The effect is broken if the mage ceases
to sing, or they or their allies attack anyone or use hostile effects.

Lesser foes are affected automatically by the canticle. For others, the
worthy foe with the best saving throw in the group may roll a Spirit
save to resist; if successful, no worthy foe is affected, while if it
fails, all are subject to the canticle.

The Excision of Days

A sorcery dearly desired by the more ruthless among the theurges, the
rite of the [Excision of Days]{.CharOverride-3} steals life from a
person to prolong the life of the caster. The subject must be human,
restrained and helpless, and the ritual is too complex to be cast
instantly or in a few rounds. The sick and elderly add but a day to the
sorcerer's lifespan. The young and healthy add a month, while infants
and children are the richest in life force and add two months apiece to
the wizard's longevity. The victims invariably perish during the ritual,
and their souls are dragged down to Hell by the arcane forces involved
in the rite. More than one victim can be sacrificed at once if they are
all properly prepared.

The renewed vitality granted by this ritual is permanent, but prolonged
use invariably has a price. After the first century, the theurge usually
begins to mutate in ways related to the life force they have stolen,
becoming progressively more inhuman and monstrous as less and less of
their original life force remains. Many theurges welcome this change, as
their new bodies are often gifted with uncanny abilities.

Kiss of the Crane

A small crane-shaped blade is first anointed with the blood of its
target, or otherwise combined with an arcane connection to its intended
victim. If the subject is visible, the blade may simply be pointed in
their direction, with no need for a connection. When the invocation is
cast, the blade leaps into the air and pursues the target, traveling at
a rate of a hundred miles an hour to unerringly seek its victim. The
magical blade then strikes for 1d6 damage per hit die of the theurge
caster, up to a maximum of 10d6. The crane is unerring, but a second
crane cannot affect the victim until all injury from the first has
healed.

Lesser foes cannot resist this spell, but worthy enemies may make an
Evasion save to take only half damage.

Open the Night Road

Many of the Night Roads between realms are hidden deep within the earth
or concealed in remote locations far from the cities of men. Of these,
some have been sealed shut by ancient sorcery or closed by the slow
congealing of natural law. This invocation can be used to open a sealed
Night Road entrance or give the caster a sense of the general direction
and distance to the nearest one. If the caster is careful, they can open
the Road only briefly, leaving it accessible for a few minutes before
the existing seal scabs back over the entrance. More reckless casters
can tear the seal away entirely, leaving the road open for all to pass
until fresh sorcery or natural law closes it once more.

Pore of Hell

A burning sigil is inscribed on a solid surface, its flames dying to a
low ember glow after a few moments. While the invocation remains active,
the caster may at any time trigger the pore as an Instant action,
causing it to vomit out flames and obsidian splinters at everything
within ten feet of the sigil. The caster may choose to have the pore
activate automatically when a target comes within three feet of it. The
pore inflicts 1d6 damage per hit die or level of the caster, to a
maximum of 10d6. Lesser foes get no saving throw against the damage,
while worthy foes can make a Hardiness save to resist the explosion
unharmed. Once discharged, the pore vanishes. A second pore cannot be
laid down within the area of effect of the first.

Ranks of Pale Bone

The theurge imbues corpses or other remains with an animating force,
raising them as soulless lesser undead. For each hit die or level of the
caster, 1d6 hit dice worth of lesser undead can be raised, assuming
sufficient raw materials are available. The corpses need not be intact,
as bones and tissue will merge and flow under the sorcery. Undead that
have already been destroyed once, however, are no longer useful for
further necromancy.

The great majority of human-sized corpses rise as 1 hit die undead,
though the corpses of terrible beasts or fearsome Misbegotten may be
more dangerous. The raised creatures are mindlessly loyal to the theurge
or any lieutenants they nominate, but otherwise act as do most lesser
undead. They remain animate until destroyed or until the invocation that
fuels their existence is dispelled. If their creator is slain, the risen
creatures will run rampant against the living.

Seal of Regnal Dominion

The theurge draws a sign of pale emerald light in the air before the
chosen target, subverting their will to the caster's own. While under
the seal's effects, the victim is absolutely obedient to the theurge's
commands, even those suicidal or repugnant to it. They will attempt to
carry out instructions to the best of their ability and natural
intelligence. Animal targets or those that do not share a language with
the theurge can only be made to understand single-word commands.

A theurge may have no more thralls under the effect of the seal at once
than they have levels or hit dice. Lesser foes have no chance of
escaping this dominion, while worthy foes may make a Spirit saving throw
to resist, and another each time they receive a hateful command from the
theurge. If not resisted, the seal's effects remain until dispelled or
dropped by the caster.

Sunder the Lesser Spell

The theurge tears away the delicate threads of theurgic sorcery around a
target within sight. A single theurgy invocation of the Gate is
instantly dispelled along with any number of low magic enchantments
within thirty feet of the chosen target point.

Breaking theurgic magic always involves a degree of feedback, however,
and so the theurge suffers a 1d10 damage die each time this spell ends
an invocation. This damage cannot be avoided or negated without spoiling
the spell\'s effect.

The Tireless Iron Cavalcade

The theurge summons up steeds of black iron and embers, the horses
rising from the earth before the caster. Enough horses are summoned to
serve up to a dozen companions. The constructs are tireless and
perfectly obedient to their riders, allowing their masters to cross
twenty miles of distance every hour they ride, or half that when
crossing rugged terrain.

Natural beasts fear the steeds and will never approach them. The horses
will not fight, but have an armor class of 0 and five hit dice apiece
for purposes of withstanding damage. They never panic and are immune to
mental influences and other conventional mortal passions. While swift
and obedient, the horses drain the fertility out of the earth beneath
their hooves in order to power their metal shells. The blackened
hoofmarks make it trivially easy to track the riders for up to a month
thereafter. The marks made by the hooves are too small to cause
substantial damage to an area\'s overall fertility or crop yield.

The Trumpet of Far Utterance

This invocation requires an arcane connection to the desired target,
albeit close friends or pantheon-mates may be contacted without the
benefit of such a link. When cast, the invocation summons a gauzy image
of the target and a five-foot radius echo of their surroundings. A
similar phantasm of the caster appears in the target's proximity. Caster
and target may speak to each other through these phantasms, and a single
inanimate object no more than ten pounds in weight may be passed between
the two. The tenuous link produces a 25% chance that the object will be
lost in transit somewhere in the distance between the two, however, with
a brief glimpse of its resting place provided.

The link lasts until the caster drops it, to a limit of one hour. If the
target doesn't wish to accept the contact, worthy foes may roll a Spirit
save to resist it. If the contact was unwelcome, the arcane connection
crumbles after the spell is complete, whereas a voluntary communication
leaves the connection intact and usable once more.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor070}Invocations
of the Way

Curse of the Blighted Strand

The theurge lays a terrible curse upon a victim, afflicting them with
almost any deformity, sickness, or misfortune that is not directly
lethal. The target must be within the caster's sight, or else the
theurge must have an arcane connection to them. The caster may describe
any kind of blight to level at the victim, or describe a misfortune that
will inevitably befall the victim if it is in any way possible.

Thus, a victim might be cursed to always maim themselves during combat,
or have their eyes rot away, or to seethe with a hundred and one
sicknesses that don't quite kill them, or so forth. The curse can only
affect them, however, and cannot control other people's actions or
thoughts, so a curse that their loved ones would reject them would be
impermissible---albeit a curse that they should poison the food of their
loved ones accidentally would be quite possible if they ever have
anything to do with their family's meals.

The curse lasts until the theurge lifts it, it is dispelled, or a
caster-chosen circumstance comes to pass. Lesser foes have no power to
resist this curse, while worthy foes may save versus Spirit to avoid it.

The Deafening Word of Truth

The theurge utters a secret which is magnified into a destructive blast
of sound. It affects all in a cone up to one hundred feet long and fifty
feet wide at the end, inflicting damage and knocking down light wooden
construction. Lesser foes are knocked down, deafened by the word for an
hour thereafter and forced to spend their movement action standing up
again.

The magnitude of the damage done depends on the significance and
importance of the secret. A petty secret that isn't even embarrassing to
the caster inflicts no damage at all to hearers. An embarrassing or
awkward secret that isn't otherwise important inflicts a 1d10 damage die
on those in the effect. A secret that exposes the caster to significant
danger, reveals a weakness that enemies can exploit, or would incur the
anger of a dangerous enemy inflicts a 1d20 damage die on those in the
effect, and forces all targets to save versus Hardiness or be stunned
and unable to act for a round.

While the caster may not leave any survivors to discuss the secret, the
invocation's symbolic significance has its effects. Any secret used to
power this spell is treated as common scholarly knowledge for the
purpose of Knowledge gifts and similar powers, even if no other living
creature knows it.

Delaying the Coming of Dawn

Most often used as an swiftly-cast spell, this invocation tampers with
the natural flow of time around the sorcerer. When cast, the GM secretly
rolls 1d6 to determine how many rounds it will last. For the duration of
the invocation, time stops around the caster. They may act freely during
this time, but cannot damage objects or people, take possessions from a
person, or move living creatures from their frozen positions. Those
around the theurge are oblivious to events that take place while they
are acting under the spell. Godbound of the Word of Time and similar
temporal creatures are immune to this spell, and may act freely in the
otherwise-frozen moment.

Repeated use of this spell is dangerous. Each time after the first it\'s
cast in a single scene, roll 1d6. If the number rolled is equal or less
than the number of rounds of time-frozen action taken so far in the
scene, the spell fails and the caster takes 2d10 straight damage.

The Far-Distant Lance

This murderous invocation requires an arcane connection with the victim.
When completed, the target must immediately make a Hardiness save or
perish in some gory and spectacular way of the caster's choice. Even
those who succeed in the saving throw suffer a 1d10 damage die per hit
die or level of the caster, up to a 10d10 maximum. Lesser foes get no
saving throw at all, and inevitably perish. The amount of force poured
through the invocation is painful to the caster, and they suffer half
the target's maximum hit dice in points of damage from the spiritual
scorching.

While potent, the energy forced through the arcane connection drives the
caster out of thaumaturgic alignment with existing connections. Once
cast on a target, all other currently-existing arcane connections to
that same victim become useless to the caster. Fresh connections must be
harvested after every casting.

Glyph of Crowned Impunity

The theurge inscribes a glowing sigil of rule on their brow, including
up to a half-dozen companions in the effect. So long as the sigil
remains visible, those under the invocation's effect have legal impunity
in all their actions. They may rob, murder, or offend local mores as
they wish, and no onlooker will recognize it as a crime. Those they
attack may defend themselves, but only their dear friends and allies
will come to their aid, as bystanders looking on will consider it
entirely appropriate behavior by those affected. The impunity lasts for
one hour or until the glyph is concealed. After the effect ends, those
who saw the crime will realize that it was illicit behavior and will
likely blame sorcery for their disinclination to interfere.

Lesser foes are always affected by the glyph, but worthy enemies may
make a Spirit saving throw to resist its effects.

Mirrored Wheel of the Seasons

The theurge lays hands on the engines of time and nature, adjusting the
local climate and weather to match any expected conditions for the area
in the next year. A midwinter day could thus be turned to midsummer, or
a dank autumn evening to a furious blizzard if such weather was to be
found in a typical winter for the area. The weather change is
instantaneous, and snow or rain will rapidly build up or vanish over the
course of ten minutes to match the targeted weather.

The theurge can maintain this temporal displacement for up to one day
per level or hit die of the caster. The spell can be maintained for
longer still, but inflicts a 1d6 damage die each day thereafter in
damage that cannot be healed until the spell is dispelled or released.
Once ended, natural weather must continue for as many days as the spell
was in effect.

Path to the Bright Sanctum

The theurgist opens a one-way gate between their present location and a
properly-prepared sanctum. The gate is large enough to admit a wagon and
remains open for exactly eleven minutes after it is created, regardless
of the caster's wishes. The gate is transparent, and allows sight and
hearing into the targeted sanctum. The gate can cross any distance
within a realm, but it must always target a sanctum and cannot be used
to teleport to arbitrary locations. A theurge must prepare a sanctum
personally, the effort taking a full week of purification and careful
geomantic arrangement of sigils and carvings at the desired location. A
theurge can only maintain one sanctum at a time, though rumors persist
of more powerful invocations of teleportation.

Shutting the Dark Way

The Night Roads bring terrifying plagues when they erupt too close to
civilized lands. Uncreated monsters, relict refugees, and the terrible
perils of the strange ecosystems of the dark roads all scourge the
surrounding lands. While it is sometimes possible to seal these roads
with brute force and burial, a powerful theurge can shut them with this
invocation.

Once cast, the road is permanently sealed until it is opened again with
a theurgic invocation or a divine miracle. The theurge must be in the
presence of a Night Road entrance to seal it.

Sign of Avulsive Banishment

The theurge draws on the power of natural law to smite creatures that do
not belong to the mundane world. A single Uncreated or angel struck by
this invocation takes 1d10 damage per level of the caster, up to a
maximum of 10d10 damage with no saving throw allowed. If cast as an
area-effect spell, it can target a zone up to thirty feet in radius
around a chosen point in sight of the theurge, inflicting a 1d6 damage
die per caster hit die or level to all valid targets within the zone.

While powerful, the energies drawn by the spell can be dangerous if they
cannot be vented. If the theurge targets a creature that is
[not]{.CharOverride-2} Uncreated or angelic, or if there are non-valid
targets in the area-effect blast, the theurge takes the same damage that
they would have inflicted on the target. This backlash cannot be
resisted or deflected. The invocation also drains ambient natural
energies in the area, and so can only be cast once per scene.

Sunder the Greater Spell

This dispelling charm functions much as does [Sunder the Lesser
Spell]{.CharOverride-3}, but can also affect theurgy of the Way as well
as the Gate.

Tumulus of Sanctified Night

Ancient necromancers had particular difficulties in dealing with hostile
Made Gods or divine powers that had dominion over death. Their mindless
legions were easily overcome by such powers, or even turned against
their master. This spell allowed an expert theurge to protect their
fleshless slaves from such influence. Records suggest that similar
invocations existed for other elemental entities, automatons, and such
creatures as might be easily bent to obedience by a Word.

Raising a Tumulus of Sanctified Night requires the special consecration
of a burial mound, memorial monument, ossuary, catacomb, or other place
of death over the course of a week. Three man-sized sanctified markers
or totems are placed within the structure; each must be destroyed or
dispelled to negate the effect of the invocation.

The spell\'s effects are strongest within the mound. Inside, all undead
are treated as greater undead, and any use of a Word or other divine
power to affect them requires the divinity to Commit Effort for the day,
this extra surcharge being paid once per scene at most. A number of
undead equal to a few dozen or a Small Mob can be specially blessed as
bodyguards or lieutenants of the necromancer, and are no longer treated
as undead for the purpose of hostile powers or influence.

Outside the mound or catacomb, the effects are lesser, but still strong.
For a one mile radius per level or hit die of the caster, all undead are
treated as greater undead and the lieutenants retain their special
immunity. For a ten mile radius per level or hit die of the caster, the
lieutenants retain their immunity but no other benefits accrue.

A necromancer may raise more than one Tumulus, but each one after the
first requires a cumulative 2 point Dominion cost to raise it.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor071}Invocations
of the Throne

A Heart's Desire

This mighty invocation will bring about anything the theurge wishes to
happen, assuming it is not utterly impossible The effects may take more
or less time to play out depending on the probability and complexity of
the request, but events that require only natural chance or the
cooperation of lesser foes will automatically happen as the theurge
desires. If the result requires the actions of worthy enemies, they get
a Spirit saving throw to resist the invocation's promptings.

Unfortunately, this meddling with natural law gouges a deep wound in the
theurge's own fate. At one critical point in a future gaming session,
the GM may force the hero to automatically fail a saving throw or
attribute check, without any chance to commit Effort or use a gift to
salvage the failure. This failure will never kill the theurge, but the
invocation cannot be used again until after the misfortune strikes.

Auspice of the Divine King

The aura of universal kingship clings to the theurge who practices this
rite. All lesser foes in their presence will instinctively defer to the
caster as their rightful ruler and will obey in any way they might
normally obey a king. Worthy foes are allowed a Spirit saving throw to
resist, one which may be repeated after each offensive or unnatural
order the caster may give them.

The invocation lasts for as long as the caster wishes to maintain it,
and those bewitched by it will remain loyal servants even after they
leave the adept's presence. Dispelling effects can free individual
subjects, but to end the spell itself it must be dispelled from the
person of the theurge who cast it. The caster does become exceptionally
vulnerable to the affronts of rebellion, however; while the spell is in
effect, any damage dice rolled against them automatically do maximum
damage.

Directed Convulsion of Law

The processes of natural law bow to the theurge who commands this
invocation. Once cast, the theurge can immunize their persons and those
of up to a half-dozen allies from particular natural laws, material
objects, or natural phenomena. A theurge could absolve themself of
gravity, for example, and fly at their normal movement rate, or exempt
themselves from acknowledging a stone wall and walk through it along
with their companions. An enemy's sword could be negated for them,
leaving it insubstantial to their touch, or the water in a lake could be
ignored, allowing them to stride the lake bottom. The spell affects only
a single phenomenon or object at a time. Thus, the caster could ignore a
wall or a sword, but not all walls or all swords. The spell can only
affect willing allies, and can last for up to an hour.

Gifts of Spring and Winter

Years are taken or added to the caster of this spell, granting them
whatever physical age they choose. The change is permanent and cannot be
dispelled, though the caster ages normally afterwards. Unfortunately,
this immortality does require a power source to complete the invocation.
The use of a divine miracle of some appropriate kind, such as Endurance,
or Health, or Fertility, could all be used to fuel the invocation, as
could certain powerful artifacts. Lacking these, human sacrifice will do
in a pinch, albeit at a great cost. One human must be sacrificed for
every year of the theurge's true age to return them to their chosen
physical condition, and all these sacrifices must be made during the
course of a single casting.

The Grinding Teeth of God

The adept drags the fabric of reality into the teeth of the celestial
gears that support it, churning every solid object in the area of effect
into a fine powder. The spell affects an area up to thirty feet in
diameter centered on a point within the caster's sight. Living creatures
that keep moving can pull away from the grinding gears and suffer only
1d20 damage for each round they remain in the area of effect. Immobile
objects are chewed to dust within ten rounds, whereupon the spell ends.
Only the very strongest supernatural substances are capable of resisting
this spell. If such an artifact or object gets caught in the area of
effect, the celestial engines will bind up and shatter, likely creating
a Night Road entrance on the spot, if not an even worse outcome.

Legion of Marching Clay

The greatest theurges can call up automatons the way lesser sorcerers
raise undead husks. This spell conjures 2 hit die minions from clay,
stone, wood, metal, or whatever other inanimate material the caster has
convenient. One minion is called up per level or hit die of the caster.
These automatons are not normally sentient, but they are intelligent as
a human being in executing their duties and are utterly loyal to the
theurge or their chosen lieutenants. If made from metal or stone, they
are immune to non-magical weapon attacks, and if made from clay or
softer substances they can develop individual identities and self-will
within the boundaries of their obedience.

Palace of the Sorcerer-Prince

With but a single use of this invocation, the theurge calls forth a
luxuriantly-appointed tower or similar structure, one capable of housing
up to a hundred inhabitants in comfort. The palace is appointed with
dozens of conjured servitors, concubines, and laborers, albeit none are
capable of fighting. The tower is sealed against entry by any save the
theurge and their chosen guests, though siege weapons or powerful magic
can break through the walls and steel-hard windows of tinted glass.

The tower naturally creates sufficient food, drink, and other common
necessities to serve a hundred guests indefinitely. If taken from the
tower, however, these viands crumble away in moments. So too the
servitors if they are forced to leave its walls; they know this and will
beg piteously to be spared such a death. Some theurges are said to have
fashioned favored servants bodies in which to truly exist.

The palace may be conjured anywhere there is sufficient relatively flat
ground to support it and may be dispelled at the caster's whim. Any
foreign objects or persons left within the tower when it is dispelled
will appear on the ground where it once stood, though the caster's
personal possessions may be left stored within whatever timeless pocket
realm the tower goes to when it is dispelled. A theurge may have only
one palace standing at any one time.

Pierce the Veil of Night

Lesser spells can open or close an existing Night Road, but this mighty
work of sorcery can create one. The spell conjures up a temporary night
road from the caster's location to a desired realm, to Hell, to a known
divine Paradise, or to a known shard of Heaven. Fairly accurate
knowledge of a destination is required, such as might be contained in
ancient manuals or learned through painstaking research.

The caster only has the power to determine the road's general
destination, not exactly where it will emerge. Like all Night Roads, it
is most likely to burst open in some remote or isolated place.

The road itself is temporary and unanchored. Crossing it will require
1d6 days of travel, during which there may be incursions by Uncreated
into the unshielded and crudely-formed passage. The road will crumble
away in 1d10+7 days. If the heroes are still on it when it starts to
collapse, they're liable to find themselves plunged into Hell, a shard
of Heaven, or the nearest available realm.

Summon the Black Iron Servitor

The theurge uses deep secrets of creation to fabricate a powerful
servitor. The creature they create may be formed of any inanimate
material they wish or grown from living flesh, and will have twice as
many hit dice as the theurge has hit dice or levels, up to a maximum of
20. It is intelligent, utterly loyal to the caster, and has three
GM-approved gifts related to its purpose, as suggested by the creator.
These powers should be roughly equivalent to short-duration lesser
Godbound gifts, albeit not true divine powers, and the creature has 5
points of Effort to fuel them. The servitor is immune to non-magical
weapon attacks, and strikes once per round with an attack that always
hits and inflicts 1d10 straight damage. It\'s armor class is 0 and its
movement rate is 30\'.

Creating these servitors takes a week of work, and the theurge may not
have more than one of them active at any one time.

Sunder Every Sorcery

This scourging invocation functions much as [Sunder the Greater
Spell]{.CharOverride-3}, but can shatter any form of theurgy. It can
even act to dispel gifts and other divine wonders, provided the gift is
not Constant and the wonder is not a permanent enchantment or curse.
Unworking such powerful effects is dangerous, however, and the caster
takes a 1d20 damage die each time they nullify a gift or divine working.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer057 .Sidebar}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor072}Using
Spells from Other Games

Given the wealth of spell lists to be found in other old-school games,
the GM might choose to import some of them for theurgy.

As a general rule, old-school spells of levels 1-3 are fit for the
theurgy of the Gate. Levels 4-6 fit theurgy of the Way, and levels 7-9
match theurgy of the Throne. If you\'re using Vancian Casting rules from
the [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} deluxe version, assign levels 1-6 to the
Gate, 7-9 to the Way, and level 10+ spells to the Throne.

Direct-damage combat spells should be avoided unless they target only
very specific kinds of creatures, produce a significant backlash of
damage to the caster, or are only usable once a scene. Any spell that's
better than the universal [Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} gift for
single-target spells or [Corona of Fury]{.CharOverride-3} for
multi-target attacks should be avoided or toned down. No combat spell
should do more than 10 dice of damage.

Spells that duplicate the effect of gifts should be notably inferior in
some way, either in not affecting worthy foes, affecting a much smaller
area or number of targets, or lasting for a much shorter duration.

Avoid buff spells and enchantments that simply crank up the subject's
attack or damage bonuses. Such spells don't really fit the idiom of
heroic demigods. Stay away from spells that grant extra actions, too, as
they can tremendously boost PC power.

Many existing old-school spells are actually much weaker than theurgy
would otherwise allow them to be. Consider allowing transformations,
summonings or wards to be permanent until dispelled by some equally
potent power.
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer058 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/AncaliaFullMap.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer059 .Single-Column}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor073}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor074}A
Gazetteer of Arcem

[Glory and Peril in a History-Haunted Land]{.CharOverride-9}
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer060 .Text-Frame}
The realm depicted here is but one of many that drift in the void of
Uncreated Night. For those dwelling within it, the world is much as it
ever was, scarred by the echoes of the Shattering but with sunlight,
gravity, the passage of seasons, and all the customary elements of a
world. Yet all educated souls know that this comfortable solidity melts
away at the far borders of the realm, where the deep blue sea darkens to
black and the light of the sun fails in the deepening gloom. Those poor
fools who sail onward are doomed to fall away, drifting through
Uncreated Night until desperate privation, foul abominations, or their
own wretched despair sees them dead.

Realms are fragile worlds. Each is a fragment of the world that was, and
each suffers from the creeping decay of Heaven's celestial engines. The
bright configurations of glory that once maintained the law are broken
now, too many savaged by divine scavengers, smashed by the Made Gods in
their war, or crumbling without the care of their angelic maintainers.
Some realms have collapsed into Uncreated Night once more, while most
others find unnatural calamities raging across their hard-pressed lands.

In The Beginning

Sages and scholars have little certainty of the world that was. It was
whole once, they agree, created long ago by the distant One who dwelled
amid the angelic hosts of far Heaven. It was round, and vast, and
populated by numberless nations of humankind more or less like the
humans the realm knows now. Some even maintain that there were more
worlds than one, and that all these many domains were populated by
creatures both human and otherwise.

These ancients had many ways and many customs among their various
peoples. Nations traded and fought and devoured each other, only to
splinter apart once more under their own troubles. Peoples rose,
flourished, and were erased in titanic struggles that admitted of only
one victor. It was a world like any other, albeit one of its own rare
marvels. Among these marvels was the great mystery of theurgy.

Theurgy was a form of sorcery that tapped the fundamental laws of
creation. While the low arts of magic were useful and supple in their
tricks, none of them had the sheer might of true theurgy. Mastery of
this art became a consuming goal of all the nations of the world, every
country and people struggling to raise up theurgists to conquer their
neighbors, benefit their populace, or simply survive the sudden
exaltation of their rivals. Countless spectacular marvels were produced
with the power of theurgy as the art spread and flourished in the world.

Yet this was not enough. With such wealth and luxury acquired through
theurgic wonders, with all the common distractions of hunger, sickness,
and pain long since conquered, the peoples of the world came to quarrel
over more subtle matters. They argued over questions of right and wrong,
of good and evil, of the nature of the world and of humanity's role
within it. Some disputed out of passionate belief. Others joined the
quarrel for the sake of power, driven by hungers that no material
prosperity could sate.

A hundred different paradises were envisioned and implemented. A
thousand utopias were crafted by kings and sages, each one expressing
some crystalline ideal of goodness. Even so, some of these realms were
indistinguishable from Hells by those who did not share their ideals,
and others cultivated the happiness of humans who were no longer
recognizable as such. Conflict was inevitable, but it was no longer
about matters of resources, or territory, or petty material matters.
Peoples warred over which utopia was to be all-encompassing, which
paradise, which purpose was to be the destiny of all humanity.

In time, a number of the mightiest theurges of the former world agreed
to bring their dispute to the highest judge. They would storm the walls
of Heaven and seek out the One to receive the Creator's final judgment.
Others feared to dare the legions of angelic guardians, the numberless
servitors of the Throne that would bar the way to mortal intrusion, but
the theurgists trusted in their marvels and their might.

They were successful. Perhaps the angels never imagined that humanity
could be so insolent as to assail the very gates of Heaven, to break
down the walls and shatter the barriers between mortals and the Throne
of God. The angels fled downward to Hell and the theurgists entered into
the presence of the One. It was there that they found an empty throne.

In the terrestrial world below, nations were thrown into chaos by this
revelation. Some believed that the Creator had always been absent, that
there never had been a Maker of that which was made and that the angels
had tricked humanity into believing in a falsehood. Others thought that
the One had withdrawn before the insolence of its creations, and that
the empty Throne was a rebuke to humanity. A few even believed that the
One remained, and it was only humanity's blind pride or vile sins that
left them unable to perceive their maker.

It was obvious to all, however, that there would be no divine word to
settle the disputes of the thousand realms. So, too, it was clear that
the angels could not stand against the power of mortal theurges. If
there was no God upon the Throne, the theurges reasoned, it was for
humanity to provide a replacement. By putting their own creation at the
heart of Heaven, they would at last enshrine their own people's chosen
ideals as the quintessential principles of the universe.

The theurges of each nation labored madly to create new gods, Made Gods,
fashioned from theurgic arts and celestial fragments torn from the
engines of Heaven. The theurges plunged deep into the celestial halls,
gutting strange engines and scavenging their occult workings to create
golem-gods. The damage they did to these empyreal constructs created
havoc in the world below, natural disasters and localized warps of
reality tearing apart nations and lands. So long as the damage was
inflicted on their rivals, however, the bonepickers of Heaven had few
qualms about collecting what they needed for their artificial
divinities.

Different nations created different forms of Made Gods. Some were wholly
artificial entities, built out of blind principle and inhuman intellect.
Others were constructs wrapped about human heroes, exemplars of a
nation's ideals chosen to be elevated to divinity. A few were fashioned
of mortal kings and rulers imbued with the power of their nation. These
entities were created as singular divinities and as ordered pantheons,
as lone exemplars and multifarious gods meant to cooperate in advancing
their shared cause. The end results sometimes resembled the humans who
had made them, and at other times were strange titans of alien form.

These Made Gods stormed Heaven, pushing aside its remaining angelic
defenders and making war on each other. The empyrean realm had its
defenses, and some perished under the flaming swords of angels or the
mysterious perils of Heaven's halls. Still, the chaos they caused in
their warfare and their ferocious despoiling of celestial engines had
its effect. The shining halls of Heaven began to splinter, fragments
spiraling away into the Uncreated Night.

The last of the angels were forced out of Heaven by the intruders, their
legions retreating to Hell. Infuriated by the insolence of the mortal
interlopers and the blasphemy of the Made Gods, they swore an unending
war against humanity and broke the engines of Hell that had purified the
souls of the wicked. Such sabotage ensured that the human souls that
were once purged of their sins and released to an unknowable fate would
be trapped forever in Hell's torments. The angels schemed to destroy the
world entirely, trapping all of humanity within Hell's fires so as to
keep them from any future meddling with the world that the angels would
build to replace the present wreckage.

The damage done above was echoed below in the Shattering. The world
began to fragment into pieces, each "realm" drifting away into the
Uncreated Night. Some splintering came from the damage to celestial
engines and the collapse of Heaven. Other breaks were intentionally
forced by the Made Gods in order to separate their patron peoples from
their rivals, a gambit to keep them safe in solitude. Some of these
realms retained enough natural law to be livable, while others spiraled
down into chaos and destruction. These world-corpses float still in the
Uncreated Night, silent and dark save for the last desperate creations
of their former inhabitants.

The war in Heaven did not end suddenly. It simply tapered away as Made
God after Made God was killed by their rivals, slain by Heaven's
defenses, or destroyed when they attempted some usurpation that was
beyond their power. Some found themselves trapped in fragments of Heaven
that held them like snares, while a handful of others returned to their
scattered peoples to preserve them from the perils of the Shattering.
The heavens were littered with the bodies of these divine golems.

For a thousand years the realms have struggled to survive. Nations have
risen on the bones of the dead, and fallen empires have brought forth
heirs in unnumbered petty kingdoms and quarreling city-states. The
glories of the former age have been largely lost. Theurgy is now a
desperately difficult art hidden from common sorcerers, the old laws it
once commanded now rotten and raddled by celestial damage. Most nations
are grateful if they have harvests sufficient for the winter, let alone
the casual abundance of a former day.

The damage to Heaven has not lessened. With the angels now determined to
sabotage what they once maintained and the natural entropy of all made
things playing on the ancient engines, every new generation finds some
fresh anomaly in their lands, dread wonders that warn of worn gears and
faded forces. Nations fall to sudden natural disasters, people suffer
under the hungers of parasite gods, and Night Roads suddenly forge paths
into populated lands for the nameless creatures of the dark between
worlds. Life is hard, and it only grows harder.

But there is a new thing in the realms. The dried corpses of the Made
Gods are disintegrating. The power bound within the divine golems is
disentangling itself from their withered husks and falling to the realms
below. Something has been changed in the millennium since their fall,
some strange alchemy of Heaven and death and mortal power has distilled
their strength in ways their makers had never imagined. The Words of
Creation that the Made Gods once wielded are now being inherited by
mortal men and women.

These are the Godbound. Mortal by birth, marked by no wonders or special
lineage, they are chosen by the Words for unknowable reasons. Perhaps it
is chance that brings them the Words. Perhaps it is some quality that
only the Words can perceive. Some even say that the One's purpose was
this, that the One has chosen the Godbound to put right what humanity
marred so long ago. Those who know of their existence can only guess at
the truth.

The Godbound often receive their Words in moments of desperation.
Perhaps there is something in their need that calls to the Words, some
quality of their frantic desire that attracts the powers of Creation. In
that moment they receive the Words and express their power in a
tremendous display of divine might. Others simply awaken one morning
infused with the fire of divinity for reasons they cannot imagine. They
are few in any realm, no more than a handful, but those who know of them
wonder if they are only the vanguard of some greater tide of demigods
soon to break upon the world..

Their power is an undeniable truth. With the Words of Creation at their
disposal, they have the ability to mend the broken engines of Heaven and
Hell, to foil the schemes of malevolent angels, to banish the scourge of
the parasite gods, and to rectify the cruelties of mortal tyrants. They
can raise new wonders in the realms, and perhaps even mend the
Shattering and cut off the Night Roads that vomit monsters into the dark
places of the world. As great as their power may be, however, there is
no promise of wisdom as well. They will shape the world to come, but of
the forms they will choose, who can tell?

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor075}The
Nature of the Universe

The cosmos is divided into four great parts: Heaven, the realms, Hell,
and the Uncreated Night that surrounds them all. It is difficult for the
living to journey between these domains, and the only common way to do
so is by the Night Roads that erupt in isolated corners of the realm.
Traveling these roads is a deed for heroes and the recklessly mad, for
the strange parasites and encrustations of Uncreated Night can make
their narrow paths a deadly gauntlet for the unprepared.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor076}The
Uncreated Night

Surrounding all that is one will find all that is not. Fathomless,
formless, lightless in its deeps, the Uncreated Night is the primordial
chaos out of which all things have come. Sages describe it as an endless
stygian void, one where the very concepts of light and meaning have no
power. To be cast into it is to drift forever, perhaps dead, perhaps
something worse than dead.

Yet despite this emptiness there are things that emerge from the
darkness. These Uncreated are like living creatures, yet somehow
[wrong]{.CharOverride-2}. They are twisted proto-things, living detritus
vomited up by the Night. Scholars suggest that they are manifestations
of "friction" between the created world and Uncreated Night, living
tension-points that manifest from the interplay between existences. They
are broken in both worlds, and their actions seem to be driven part by
pain, part by hunger, and part by simple hate. The great majority are
murderously dangerous even to heroes, while those that lack obvious
hostility can still have a corrosive effect upon the sanity of those
around them.

The only way to cross the Uncreated Night is by means of the Night
Roads. These narrow paths resemble titanic arches that span the darkness
that surrounds them on all sides. Some look like bridges of stone, while
others are ribbons of dull metal, or black rivers that flow without
banks or bottom. There are many different seemings for these Night
Roads, and sages argue over their creators. Some say it was angels who
built them in the dawn of creation, while others credit the One, and
some point to records of ancient theurges who built them to connect the
realms after the Shattering. A few roads appear to condense out of
Uncreated Night itself and are fabricated from a delirious distillation
of the worlds they connect.

The Night Roads are dangerous. Many are constructed with wayhouses and
citadels along the path, most empty, some still preserving life of a
kind. These oases of safety in the endless darkness sometimes shelter
the heirs of explorers or refugees trapped upon the road in ages long
lost, and few of these enclaves welcome outsiders. In addition to this
peril, the Uncreated often infest the way and make crossing the road a
feat worthy of a hero's valor. Yet once a road is cleared, it will
usually remain that way so long as some power is capable of keeping out
the inevitable incursions of the Uncreated.

Entrances to these roads tend to "erupt" in isolated, remote locations
of a realm. It's almost as if the road was a needle, and only the
desolate places of a world have a "skin" thin enough for it to pierce.
Particularly fragile realms might have a road erupt in the middle of a
teeming metropolis, however, or in some other awkward location. Most
roads soon warp their immediate surroundings into some otherworldly or
monstrous scene, and one of the telltale signs of a hidden road is the
sudden presence of impossible environments or bizarre magical objects.
Adventurers who delve deep in the ruins of the ancients know to be wary
of structures that grow stranger the deeper they go.

Once a road has broken through into a world, it usually remains
connected unless blasted free by some tremendous theurgic power. Most
roads connect only two points, though there are other dark highways that
have multiple offshoots and branches to connect many worlds and
locations.

Entering a Night Road is sometimes as simple as walking through the
right doorway and sometimes as difficult as performing a special magical
rite at the correct time and in the proper place. Leaving one is simply
a matter of stepping through the passage at the end of each road. Of
course, the inhabitants of the spaces between are often disinclined to
allow passage, sometimes charging strange tolls and sometimes opposing
passages with main force.

The worst effect of a Night Road is the inevitable disgorging of its
Uncreated parasites on any realm it pierces. Monsters of sanity-melting
horror can suddenly burst from a dark corner of the world, ravening
through the populace until some brave band of heroes can drive them back
and seal the Night Road's entrance with powerful magic.

Completely destroying a Night Road is impossible for ordinary sorcery.
Certain powerful theurgic incantations can damage or shatter a road,
however, and the tremendous might of the Godbound might be able to do
the same if the structure's sensitive points can be found and smashed.
Of course, to do so without some swift means of escape would condemn the
wreckers to an endless, drifting exile in the darkness of Uncreated
Night.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor077}Heaven

Heaven is a broken house. Much like the world, it was torn apart in the
Shattering, either from the violence of the Made Gods and their
struggles or the damage done to its celestial engines. Now fragments of
it drift through Uncreated Night; a hall here, an avenue there, or a
vast and shining parkland floating further still. These shards are often
connected by hidden Night Roads, some concealed so well that only those
with the most exacting secret knowledge could ever hope to find the
entrance. Other shards float free, and only powerful theurgy from within
a connected terrestrial realm can bring outsiders into it.

The halls of Heaven come in many aspects, usually grand and dramatic.
Towering walls of cloud-pale stone, arches of burning glass, parks of
perfect trees arranged in patterns of mystic significance that hum with
music when the sweet wind rustles their leaves... all things of
magnificence have a home in Heaven. Yet these wonders are usually
cracked, stained, and despoiled with the violence that once raged
through the halls. Many works of impossible beauty have been shattered
by the fury of the Made Gods and the angels, and much of what remains
has been lessened or perverted into something dangerous.

Some shards maintain an ecosystem, usually through a magical source of
food and water, or a celestial engine that sustains life within the
zone. Some of these refuges still have inhabitants, whether maddened
angels, trapped priests of a Made God who once dwelled here, or hapless
theurgists and their retinues. A thousand years have passed in the
realms since Heaven was broken, but when the engines of time are damaged
too a strange agelessness can fall on a place. Other refugees are simply
the heirs of the original intruders, gone strange with the passage of
isolated centuries.

Heaven also has its intrinsic dangers. Some shards are trapped, snares
left by some Made God in a former age to kill intruders or protect
something precious. Other "traps" are simply the unfortunate
consequences of the shard's own decay, with places becoming perilous and
magic curdling into sour dangers. The celestial engines themselves are
particularly dangerous, with their exotic appearance and strange powers
luring the careless into sudden obliteration by forces beyond their
comprehension.

Every piece of Heaven was originally connected to part of a realm. This
connection is spiritual and causal rather than a physical bridge, for it
is the celestial engines of this shard that maintain the realm's
existence and the continuance of its natural laws. Were these engines to
stop or be dismantled, the part of the realm it's connected to would
boil away into the Uncreated Night. Many shards of Heaven have already
lost their associated realms to other catastrophes, and so make rich
pickings for looters who prefer not to inflict cosmic catastrophes on
some unsuspecting land. Of course, lacking a connected realm, these
shards are also among the hardest to reach.

Many powers have scavenged the engines of heaven since the world was
created. Made Gods looted them to use their priceless components to
enhance their own power. Theurges stole shards to imbue their magic with
new force. Saboteurs broke them to inflict catastrophes on the lands
they were meant to regulate, and the angels themselves have sought to
smash them purely out of a desire to destroy a world that so bitterly
betrayed them. Were it not for their tremendous durability, the engines
would doubtless have all crumbled by now.

Only the greatest heroes dare seek the fallen halls of Heaven. Finding a
Night Road to a shard, clearing the path, and exploring the decaying
halls of paradise is a feat reserved for the most awe-inspiring of
mortal heroes... or for a determined young Godbound.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor078}Hell

Hell is the refuge of the exiles of Heaven, a burning cyst of terrible
engines and nameless torment run by the bitter angels and meant to
forever incarcerate the souls of dead mortals. Its original purpose as a
place of purification and transcendence has been perverted by the
warping of its engines, and now a soul that falls into its maw can never
hope to escape.

The original warden of Hell, the arch-angel Sammael, was driven out by
the exiles. He and his remaining loyalists hide within the labyrinths of
Hell, aiding those who come to free the souls of the dead or oppose
Hell's new masters. While his love for humanity is strange, his rage at
the perversion of his former domain and the defilement of its holy
purpose makes him a Godbound's best ally amid the infernal flames.

Hell can be reached in two ways; either through hidden Night Roads in
places of forgotten torment, or through the simple expedient of dying
without soon after receiving the benefit of effective funerary rites. A
soul that is not safely anchored to the dreamless sleep of death or that
lacks a Godbound patron's Paradise to escape to will inevitably spiral
downward to Hell, there to suffer without end.

Only certain faiths have effective rituals for anchoring the dead to the
sleep of their own realm. The Unitary faith of many realms is effective,
as is the ancestor worship of the Ren peoples of this realm. Other
nations have their own customary and effective means, though not all
work so well as they promise.

Infiltrating Hell is not difficult, as few Night Road entrances are
known and guarded by the inmates. Leaving it, however is a much more
difficult enterprise, particularly if the heroes mean to escape with
some rescued soul.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer061 .Single-Column}
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer062 .Sidebar}
Corpse Worlds

It is often the case that a Night Road connects a dead realm to a living
one. These ruined worlds fall for many reasons: tremendous wars,
cataclysmic weapons, monstrous plagues, or a catastrophic lapse in
natural law created by damage to the celestial engines that were to
support it. Some lack even sunlight and air, while others are gray
tomb-worlds with rotting cities and charnel fields of the fallen.

Fabulous treasures can be found in these corpse worlds, but so too can
the horrors that destroyed it in the first place. Undead are a common
threat, to say nothing of the Uncreated that creep in through the
realm's thinning skin. Other worlds still retain a thin skimming of
inhabitants who survive by cannibalizing the last scraps of sustenance,
if not each other. The natural laws can prove treacherous as well, when
sounds suddenly turn to jagged blades that fill the air, or gravity
turns as sadistic as a cat. A few realms are actually physically
collapsing as the celestial engines that supported their existence are
spinning down into decay.

A dead world has no reasonable hope. Whatever efforts its inhabitants
made to escape their doom failed, and all that is left is to wait for
the inevitable final silence. For a Godbound hero, however, things might
be different. Perhaps they can reach the sundered hall of Heaven where
the realm's celestial engines are located and repair the faltering
devices, or drive out the forces that are interfering with their
operation. Efforts in the world itself might revive a decaying ecosystem
or reignite a sun that has guttered and died. Such feats of resurrection
would be a tremendous labor even for a divinity, but with a Godbound's
aid all hope is not yet lost.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer063 .Sidebar}
Paradises

Scattered in the Uncreated Night are small realms of refuge. These
Paradises were created by the Made Gods or by ancient powers of the
Former Empires, thrones and testimonies to their glory. Each one was
fashioned in the image of its creator, built to be a citadel and a
dwelling-place for the god and the souls of their faithful followers.

At their time of death, the souls of these believers would be translated
to the safety of their god's Paradise instead of being dragged down to
Hell. There they could persist forever in glory and peace, suffused by
the happiness of their new home. Suffering would fade, loss would be
assuaged, and the god would bask in the praise and contentment of their
beloved people.

Of course, the details of these paradises varied from god to god, and
some of them embodied ideals that would be monstrous to unbelieving
eyes. Still, they were meant as places of refuge, and refuges they
remain. While the death or vanishment of their masters prevents any new
souls from entering the Paradise, the original faithful persist, still
sheltered by the power of the realm and its innate wonders. Among them
are sages long since lost to the other realms, and knowers of forgotten
secrets.

Sometimes these Paradises go sour in the absence of their maker. Without
their guiding wisdom and power, they can become infested by intrusions
of Uncreated or riven by struggles among the souls. A few collapse
entirely into warfare or are devoured by the encroaching Night. As death
and pain are often made impossible within a Paradise, the results of
such catastrophes can be as bizarre as they are horrific.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer064 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor079}The
Nations of
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker309}Arcem

The natives of this realm most often call it "Arcem", after an old
Patrian word for a place of refuge. Even the humblest peasant knows that
it was greater once, that it was part of a vast and wondrous world with
unnumbered marvels and unimaginable delights. But that was long ago,
before the Shattering, and now the seas pour away in the darkness beyond
the horizon and the people of Arcem are only a remnant of what was once
great.

For most natives, this is thing for philosophical regret. Most are too
busy living their lives to concern themselves with the disasters of a
thousand years ago. Do their nations not thrive in the present day? The
technological marvels of the Bright Republic, the magnificent poetry of
Vissio, the grand architecture of Patria and the timeless culture of
Dulimbai to the south... are these not wonders enough for any man? The
past is good for salvaging, for the ancient ruins have many treasures
and wonders, but the present is best for living.

Of course, things could always be better. True, there are stories of
disasters in the hinterlands, of strange beasts creeping up from dark
places, of curdled magic and vile wonders coming to pass in the cities
of men, but there are more important things to concern the rulers than
the talk of frightened peasants. What of the endless war between Patria
and Dulimbai, or the depredations of the necromantic raiders of Ulstang,
or the monstrous collapse of Ancalia and their doubtless-culpable
magical experiments? These are the things that the rulers know and can
see, and so these are the things that concern them.

Yet the common people see what the great do not yet admit. Things are
changing in Arcem, and not for the better. Every year there are more
monsters emerging from the shadows, every year there are more
inexplicable magical disasters and natural calamities. The celestial
engines are running down, and if they collapse, Arcem will fall with
them.

For now, the people of Arcem are concerned with their own lives and the
troubles they have always had. Soon enough, they may find new ones to
overcome.

Using Arcem in Your Campaign

The following pages describe Arcem, one possible realm out of the many
your campaigns might cross. Fifteen major nations are described, along
with particulars of their current troubles, though there are dozens of
less significant powers scattered along their borders and in the less
developed parts of the realm. If you need a particular nation-state to
serve your purposes, you can simply plant it next to the most
appropriate existing nation, or carve it out of their territory.

The map depicts the main continent of the realm. Venturing far beyond
its borders leads out to the gradual darkening of Uncreated Night, and
certain doom if the ship should sail too far.

Arcem has only started to encounter Godbound within the past few years,
and it hasn't had time to come to terms with their power or influence.
Its governments and cultures operate as they always have, dealing with
threats and powers they are familiar with and largely ignoring the
Godbound as much as is possible. Godbound NPCs do exist in the realm,
but it's left for you to decide where and how they're interacting with
the locals. Many may be uninterested in Arcem's affairs, busy exploring
the Night Roads, or shaping some pocket kingdom in an isolated part of
the realm.

If your PCs do decide to get involved in politics, be ready for things
to change drastically in the realm. There's no nation in Arcem that can
easily withstand the concerted attention of a pantheon of experienced
Godbound, and even a band of newly-empowered heroes can cause a national
emergency if they put their minds to it. If the PCs don't like something
about a nation, a culture, a religion, or a major geographic feature,
they can do change it with enough time and effort. As the GM, you should
cherish such initiative, as goals like these practically write your
adventure content for you.

At the end of this chapter is a handout page designed to be passed
around at the table when players are deciding on PC backgrounds. You can
print it out or share it around your play group accordingly.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer065 .Single-Column}
  ------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Nations of the Realm                       
  [Ancalia]{.CharOverride-7}                 A kingdom fallen in on itself after a calamitous otherworldly invasion, plagued by warlords and worse
  [Atheocracy of Lom]{.CharOverride-7}       A land embittered by the Shattering, ruled by the fearsome priests of True Reason and their sorcery
  [Bleak Reach]{.CharOverride-7}             A ruined exile-land where the refugees and outcasts have scratched out a hard, unlucky existence
  [Bright Republic]{.CharOverride-7}         The last bastion of advanced science in the realm, threatened by the decay of its vital technology
  [Far Realms]{.CharOverride-7}              The far lands that drift within Uncreated Night, known only by their castaways and voyagers
  [Howlers]{.CharOverride-7}                 Nomadic raiders of a lost empire who plunder neighbors and guard the poisonous words of their sires
  [Kasirutan Archipelago]{.CharOverride-7}   Pirates and traders of the hot southeastern islands, the finest sailors in all the realm
  [Nezdohva]{.CharOverride-7}                A nation of serfs, artificers and quarreling golem-nobles under the rule of the mechanical Iron Czar
  [Oasis States]{.CharOverride-7}            Pyramid-dwelling inhabitants of the desert grow much under the mad eye of the God-Pharaohs
  [Patrian Empire]{.CharOverride-7}          A martial state long locked in combat with Dulimbai, dependent on heavy infantry and slave labor
  [Raktine Confederacy]{.CharOverride-7}     A patchwork of city-states and rural domains with dark, potent wizards and a ferocious independence
  [Regency of Dulimbai]{.CharOverride-7}     Vanguard of an ancient invasion, proud of its erudition and art and convinced of its right to rule all
  [The Thousand Gods]{.CharOverride-7}       A god-plagued land of countless tribes who wield ancient theotechnical magic in service to their deities
  [Toba Plains]{.CharOverride-7}             Proud riders who serve the holy monks of their ancestor-monasteries and the armies of Dulimbai
  [Ulstang Skerries]{.CharOverride-7}        Witch-viking raiders from cold northern isles who enslave the dead to drive their bone-prowed ships
  [Vissio]{.CharOverride-7}                  Former Patrian colonies turned independent city-states of merchants, artists, poisoners, and poets
  ------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer066 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker310}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor080}Ancalia

Only five years ago, the kingdom of Ancalia was a beacon of peaceful
prosperity. Under the wise rule of High Negus Arad, the Elect of God,
Ancalia was a green land of thriving cities, rich fields, and a people
grateful to the One for their good fortune. Such peace perhaps brought
quarrels between the hereditary jantirar lords of the countryside and
the royally-appointed kantibas of the cities and major towns, but the
roaming justiciars of the seven great knightly orders were swift to
resolve such difficulties with their wisdom and their blades.

This all ended five summers ago. Through some unfathomable collapse of
the celestial engines, nine dire Night Roads erupted throughout the
country. Hordes of misbegotten Uncreated poured into Ancalia and the
Hollowing Plague raised every corpse as a ravening husk. Some cities
were slaughtered within days, while others had time to evacuate as the
knightly orders contained the outpouring long enough for their
countrymen to escape. The loss of life was horrific and the ancient
orders were all but destroyed by their sacrifice.

The surviving people of Ancalia have retreated to coastal enclaves and a
few isolated inland refuges where the abominations cannot easily pry
them out. Many have sought to flee Ancalia entirely, but their neighbors
do not welcome them. People say that the High Negus must have been
meddling with some forbidden theurgy or dangerous relic in order to have
brought such a catastrophe on his people. The common folk fear that the
Ancalians will bring this disaster with them, while the wise can hardly
bring themselves to consider that such a monstrous downfall might
randomly strike their nations as well.

For now, the surviving men and women of Ancalia shelter under the hand
of countless petty warlords, surviving officials, and daring
freebooters. Some of these lords are selfless defenders of the common
people. Far more are desperate men and women willing to do anything to
buy another month's life for their community, whatever the cost to
others. Some are nothing more than bandit kings, plundering other
survivors for what they want or need. All fear the ruined cities of
Ancalia and the creatures that still lair within them, but sometimes
need for the goods within outweighs mortal terror.

The famous knights of Ancalia are almost extinct, but a few wandering
blades still haunt the land. Most of these survivors hew to the ancient
codes of their orders, to the principles of courage, honor, piety, and
devotion to justice. Beyond these principles, each order devoted itself
to a different set of virtues, whether the healer's mercy of the
Surcessant Order or the unflinching defense of the common folk cherished
by the Pavians. Every ordained knight still has the theoretical right of
judgment on anyone inferior to the royal family, but exerting this
authority is a difficult matter in these bitter days.

Ancalians are a dark people, of the same Akeh stock as the Patrians and
the ancestors of the Vissians. Once a peaceful folk given to fine
architecture, sober learning, and devout worship of the One, these
latter years have killed most of them who were not capable of hard deeds
to preserve their own lives. Many still struggle to maintain the
reasoned, orderly society they once had, but the dire peril of the
wilderness and the dearth in their homes sometimes force grim acts.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Unknown, though at its peak it numbered around four million          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Remaining zones of human habitation are under the rule of warlords   |
| and remnant officials, many of whom style themselves the "rightful"  |
| High Negus of Ancalia. The writ of such a warlord extends no further |
| than the shadow of his sword.                                        |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The land is overrun with monsters that have entered through the      |
| numerous Night Roads that have erupted in the land.                  |
|                                                                      |
| Their neighbors are convinced Ancalia brought this disaster on       |
| itself by some secret meddling with unknown forces.                  |
|                                                                      |
| Foreign adventurers and militaries are seeking to plunder the        |
| crippled country's ruins with no concern for survivors.              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Dawit, Yared, Amanuel, Jemal, Nahom,        |
| Samson, Bereket, Beruk, Kassahun, Kirubel, Ejigu, Jember, Adisu,     |
| Aman, Fikre                                                          |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Rediet, Winta, Samira, Ayda, Saba, Hani,  |
| Dina, Tinsae, Sumeya, Gadise, Makda, Teru, Zenaye, Mehret, Hanna     |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Tewolde, Senai, Zerezghi, Alazar,         |
| Nemariam, Berhane, Helebo, Soro, Dega, Gatimo, Minale, Bishaw, Amare |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Fallen noble, Wandering knight, Monster hunter, Ruin plunderer,      |
| Explorer of the Night Roads, Failed warlord, Rebel against a         |
| warlord, Hard-pressed farmer, Child of refugees, Sorcerous           |
| researcher, Veteran mercenary, Missing royal heir                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer067 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/AncaliaInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer068 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor081}The
Atheocracy of
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker311}Lom

Lom is a land of grim survivors. Their ancestors were refugees and
survivors from the hideous techno-theocracy that once ruled the Bleak
Reach to the west, thralls of cold synthetic gods that escaped their
masters and fled east to the moors and hills of what is now Lom. Their
sufferings were indescribable under the rule of those artificial
divinities, and their heirs swore an everlasting enmity toward all the
gods and harbingers of divinity. Humanity\'s reason alone would be the
measure for right and justice.

Lom is ruled by the Atheocracy, a priesthood of True Reason that rejects
the idea of true divinity. The Made Gods, parasite divinities, and even
the One are nothing more than mysteries of poorly-understood magic or
artificial monsters, unworthy of worship and enemies to humanity. Only
True Reason is to be trusted as revealed to the insight of the
Atheocrat. Naturally, only the antipriests of Lom can reliably interpret
the dictates of True Reason to the people.

Lom is a gray, unhappy land under the hand of the antipriests, with its
towns and villages all subject to capricious laws and improvements
devised by the hierarchy. Any number of commoners are casually
sacrificed in order to explore new cultural orders and new arrangements
of society, their worth acknowledged only as suitable subjects for
experiments, all in service of True Reason and an eventual golden age of
human law. That age is not perceptibly closer even after centuries of
bitter sacrifice.

The antipriests take their power from the Pyre, an ancient angelic
artifact seized by the first Atheocrat. Some among the antipriests
carefully prepare themselves for several years before entering the Pyre;
most emerge with their minds burnt away by the celestial energies, but
some come out with their reason intact. Both the idiotic and the
undamaged are gifted with incredible powers of magical nullification and
suppression, gifts even capable of stifling a Godbound's powers. The
simple-minded victims are trained like dogs to use their powers at a
handler's command, while those who retain their minds can expect great
advancement in the Holy Colloquy that rules the nation.

Unbeknownst to all but the greatest in the Colloquy, Lom is cultivated
by angelic entities. These cruel lords give the Atheocrat access to
secrets and ancient relics in exchange for his efforts to stamp out
religion in the realm. Without the sheltering power of effective funeral
rites, the souls of the dead are certain to pass into the talons of
Hell, and so the fewer true religions, the better for the angels. Those
who know the truth are promised a glorious place in the flames in
exchange for their cooperation. By the time they've risen to such a
position, few have any resolve to resist the angelic inducement.

The appearance of the Godbound are a source of grave concern to the
Atheocrat and the Holy Colloquy. Hunter teams of simple-minded
antipriests and their ruthless handlers have been dispatched into the
world to seek out these troublemakers and deal with them. Their
successes have been few thus far, but each encounter gives the
antipriests more experience in dealing with Godbound gifts.

Within the boundaries of Lom, there are few outsiders. Traders are
accepted as a necessary evil, but foreigners who would live in Lom are
expected to adopt the customs of the people and abandon their former
faiths. Those who try to incite worship among the people can expect a
hideous death, though many of the downtrodden masses are so desperate
for a better life that they are willing to pledge their worship to
anything that offers aid, no matter how foul it might be.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Four million, of which seventy thousand are ordained antipriests.    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Atheocrat Truth, the Voice of Reason, rules with the aid of the Holy |
| Colloquy of Preceptors. Antipriests have absolute superiority over   |
| lay reasoners and their commands can only be overruled by orders     |
| from a higher-ranking antipriest.                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The antipriests treat the common folk as wholly disposable tools for |
| their plans, inculcating bitter resentment from the people.          |
|                                                                      |
| The powers of the Pyre to hinder Godbound have left numerous other   |
| parties interested in stealing it from the Atheocrat.                |
|                                                                      |
| Lom's secret angelic patrons are perfectly willing to see the whole  |
| nation obliterated if it advances their plans in the realm.          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Unisex Names:]{.CharOverride-3} Probity, Insight, Veracity,         |
| Sagacity, Temperance, Fruitful, Benevolence, Upright, Selfless,      |
| Unity, Attentive, Obedience, Tireless, Clarity, Accuracy, Impiety,   |
| Joyful, Verified, Repeatable, Perception                             |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Scholar, Farmer, Student, Wright, Clerk,  |
| Miller, Mower, Servant, or other job title-- which may not actually  |
| be their job.                                                        |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegade antipriest, Secret cult leader of a faith, Former spy for   |
| the atheocracy, Bodyguard for an antipriest, Hardscrabble peasant    |
| farmer, Esoteric scholar of True Reason, Sacred engineer, Keeper of  |
| a secret history, Colloquy-sent assassin of priests                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer069 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/LomInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer070 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor082}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker312}Bleak
Reach

The chaos of the Shattering was worse in some parts of the realm than
others, and the peninsula known as the Bleak Reach was one of the less
fortunate regions. Once the home of a sophisticated sister-culture to
the modern Bright Republic, its cities were thrown down by tremors and
its people slaughtered by waves of celestial miasmas and lethal karmic
imbalances. For centuries afterwards the land was thought cursed,
certain to be the death of any foolish enough to dare its rough hills
and brooding forests.

As such, it was a perfect destination for exiles and malcontents of
every description. Communities and cabals driven from their old lives
would seek out new homes in the only land that would have them, the
empty fields of the Bleak Reach. The soil was rich enough to sustain
them, but the terrible beasts of the hills and the aftereffects of the
dire celestial imbalances in the region still make it a more dangerous
land than any common settler would wish to colonize. Most towns are
little more than ramshackle hamlets on the coast, where rare trade
visits from Kasirutan or Vissian merchants can barter necessities for
their dried fish and salvaged ruin-scraps.

The isolation and seclusion of the land has made it a favorite refuge
for groups unacceptable in other nations. Among the families who lost at
local politics and the religious enthusiasts cast out of their old
societies are circles of darker intent, experimenters and sorcerers who
seek undisturbed privacy. Parasite gods form particularly easily in this
disordered land, and the back country is dotted with dark temples in
which dwell these desperate divine addicts and their fearful minions.
The ancient ruins promise treasures as well, and there are always a
number of reckless adventuring bands eager to plumb the fallen cities
for lost valuables and functioning relics.

A few determined souls mean to found their own petty kingdoms in the
Bleak Reach. These aspiring kings and queens rarely end up ruling over
anything more impressive than a small coastal village of uneasy refugees
and exiles, but a few have had the charisma and contacts to launch
serious colonization efforts in the interior. Such efforts usually
prosper for a time, sometimes building into substantial statelets before
the pressure of monstrous foes, demented parasite gods, or sheer
inexplicable bad luck finally drags them down. Their repeated ultimate
failures have done much to discourage other nations from seeking new
territory on the peninsula.

Those few souls who call the Bleak Reach home are a tough and canny lot,
with a hard eye for survival and a predictable enthusiasm for luck
rituals and talismans of every kind. Most locals lead hard lives
wresting crops from the fields or fish from the sea, and many
communities are more than willing to cut deals with parasite gods or
other sinister powers to ease their burdens. Some are convinced that
their special protectors are all that stand between them and the bad
luck of the peninsula. This conviction leads some communities to
terrible sacrifices and bleak rites, ones usually concealed from
outsiders.

The local communities are ruthlessly pragmatic in their customs and
laws. Locals care very little about what strangers do with their own
affairs or with outsiders, so long as they can be relied upon to support
the community and aid their neighbors. Even the most vicious or sinister
sorts can find a home in a Reacher village so long as they reserve their
malice for useless strangers or the inhabitants of rival villages. Some
towns quietly cultivate such men and women, using them as weapons
against the myriad dangers of the Reach.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Probably 250,000 along the coast, with an unknown number living      |
| deeper in the interior.                                              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| There is no overall government of the Reach. Each village or town    |
| answers only to its headman, boss, chief, elders, or some other      |
| figure powerful enough to protect them and to resolve their internal |
| disputes in some minimally-tolerable way.                            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parasite gods and eldritch horrors are regularly generated by the    |
| spiritual miasma of the peninsula.                                   |
|                                                                      |
| Dangerous creatures or devastating artifacts are sometimes released  |
| by the decay of ancient containment structures.                      |
|                                                                      |
| Intolerably vile men and women regularly find refuge in the villages |
| and deep interior of the Reach.                                      |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Each community usually has a predominant national origin, depending  |
| on the original source of the colonists. Names follow that nation's  |
| patterns, along with the random families of outsiders who sought     |
| refuge in the village. Descriptive aliases are particularly common   |
| among those seeking anonymity.                                       |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Back-country hermit, Last survivor of a failed community, Exiled     |
| noble heir, Foreign bounty hunter, Failed colonist, Adventurous      |
| ruin-scavenger, Roving trader, Seeker of forbidden lore, Poor        |
| peasant farmer, Hunter of beasts and bandits                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer071 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/BleakReachInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer072 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor083}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker313}Bright
Republic

The island nation known as the Bright Republic is an anomaly in the
realm. It alone of all the heritor nations has been able to maintain
sophisticated technological resources in the wake of the Shattering.
Jealously-guarded etheric energy nodes route power to Republican devices
and industry while reinforcing the celestial engines that allow the
operation of these advanced devices. Without the nearby influence of
these building-sized nodes, their magnetic rifles, electric cars, and
advanced telecommunications devices are so much intricate scrap.

Most Republic technology is roughly on par with modern First World
Earth, albeit with etherically-derived magnetic and electrical forces
replacing internal combustion. Some prototypes are capable of much more,
though these usually require customized magical support and cannot be
mass-produced. A few items are even enchanted to function off the
island, though these are prohibitively expensive treasures reserved for
the wealthy elite.

The natives of the Bright Republic are keenly aware of the limits of
their fifty-odd etheric nodes. Immigration is ruthlessly restricted to
the wealthy or the well-connected, though criminal organizations are
known to be able to get people past the shore monitoring stations for an
exorbitant price. Most foreigners crave a place, as even the most
impoverished Republic citizen enjoys a lifestyle on par with the modern
First World inhabitant, with advanced plumbing, potent pharmaceuticals,
cheap televisions, and an island-wide computing network.

Unfortunately, the etheric nodes are decaying. Much of the Republic's
enormous industrial base is dedicated to manufacturing the
rapidly-consumed spare parts for the nodes, and the demand is only
increasing. Great sums of precision-tooled parts and goods are sold to
the traders of other nations in exchange for vital raw materials that
cannot be found on the island, but more and more of this bounty is being
burnt up or consumed just to keep the nodes in operation. The Republic's
theotechnicians cannot replace these nodes should they fail or be
destroyed by sabotage.

The Republic's government is unequal to the situation. The current
president is a puppet for bureaucratic interests, and the various
departments of the government struggle over control of the several
hundred regional councilors elected to the island's Grand Council. Each
is concerned with gaining more influence and power, and in the shadow of
their conflict several powerful criminal organizations and amoral
business concerns are seeking their own advantage. Beneath the rosy
facade of republican democracy and dutiful public service, almost
anything can be bought or permitted if the right functionaries are paid
off. It's tacitly understood that senior bureaucrats are above the law
unless they manage to anger a sufficient number of their peers.

The public only dimly understands their danger, and worries about the
nodes are dismissed as crankishness. Most citizens are concerned chiefly
with a new car, a new television show, a new dance club, or a new profit
opportunity. Those who do know the truth are divided between the
idealistic upholders of the nation and the ruthless souls who mean only
to profit by the coming disaster. A few even look to the Godbound for
salvation from their impending downfall.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Twelve million, most in urban areas focused around the nodes         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| President Elaina Wright, a pleasant nullity who serves as a sock     |
| puppet for the major bureaucratic departments of her government.     |
| Three hundred Councilors on the Grand Council are tacitly divided up |
| among other businesses and organizations.                            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The etheric nodes are gradually wearing out, and the Republic        |
| doesn't have the ability to repair them with existing resources.     |
|                                                                      |
| Representative democracy is a thin facade behind which criminal      |
| groups, bureaucratic departments, and major corporations fight.      |
|                                                                      |
| Other nations resent and envy the Republic's wealth, and know the    |
| island depends on their trade in raw materials.                      |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The Republic is a polyglot population drawn from almost all the      |
| other nations of the realm, with corresponding naming conventions.   |
| Those mercenary agents hired through the Special Resources           |
| Department, a clearinghouse for elite or supernatural operatives,    |
| take code names of their choice. Some of them show up on TV shows or |
| in comics dedicated to their exploits.                               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Mercenary operative hired through the Special Resources Department,  |
| Secretly-crusading bureaucrat, Gutter punk rebel, High-tech          |
| engineer, Social celebrity, Entertainment star, Clean cop, Foreign   |
| dock worker, Gang legbreaker, Private investigator                   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer073 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/BrightRepublicInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer074 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor084}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker314}Far
Realms

The Night that encircles the realm is a thing of mystery and dread to
common sailors. All know that a ship so careless as to sail too far from
shore is certain to be lost forever in the darkness of the Night, doomed
to a nameless death in black waters. But some say there are secret ways
through the Night and hidden courses by which a canny captain can pass.

"The Far Realms" is the name for those lands beyond the Night. None are
in steady communication with this realm. At most, it is ever only a ship
or two from some lost fleet, or a strangely-rigged craft from a distant
land. Still, enough strangers have sifted through the veil over the past
thousand years to bring strange and conflicting word of what might lie
beyond.

Not all of these strangers are even human. Manlike beasts, constructs of
bronze and glass, and entities that only bear the outward seeming of
humanity have all come ashore from the Far Realms. Such strange
creatures seldom find a comfortable place in the realm, but there are
enough wonders native to these lands that a foreign marvel does not look
intolerably out of place. Those that survive long in the realm usually
have some special gift to make them a valuable minion.

Few ever manage to return to their homes. No native sailor would dream
of daring the encircling Night, and those sorcerers and madmen who seek
far voyages have their own destinations in mind. Many of these castaways
are left to pine forever for the world that they have lost, though some
die terrible deaths in vain attempts to return home. Those that linger
sometimes bring strange new arts or sorcery to the natives, often with
disruptive results.

Using the Far Realms

The Far Realms in your campaign are intended to be a catch-all for
characters and creatures that have no obvious origin in the rest of the
realm. A GM might choose to use another fantasy setting for a Far Realm,
importing characters from a distant world to experience this new and
divinity-plagued domain. Another might let a player who has an idea for
an otherwise unsuitable PC paint up a few strokes of the world they
originated in, and then cast them ashore in the game.

The Far Realms can also be used to insert foes and artifacts that have
no clear grounding in the genre or style of your current campaign. Need
a space tyrant? Send their robot armies in from the Far Realms.

By default, the Far Realms are largely "off the board" for the campaign
as a whole. The events and peoples of those distant lands are too far
off and too hard to reach to make any difference in the main campaign,
and so characters who come from those lands should have goals and
ambitions that are relevant to the current campaign setting. This is not
mandatory, however, if the GM really [does]{.CharOverride-2} want to run
a crossover campaign between a Godbound realm and a more familiar
fantasy setting. The Night Road between the worlds might be known and
reliable enough for the PCs to regularly pass between realms.

The basic concept of the Far Realms can still be used even if you choose
to create your own realm for your Godbound campaign and don't use the
example one provided here. A normal Godbound campaign can be expected to
reach up to the broken Heavens and down to the usurped Hell in its
ordinary play. It's not much more of a stretch to include a new world
among the offerings.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer075 .Sidebar}
Creating Characters from Distant Realms

It\'s not at all impossible that a player in your group might want to
create a PC from some existing fantasy world, or brew up their own
origin from a realm wholly unlike that of the campaign\'s main focus.
Whether or not this is permissible is something that\'s up to the GM.
Some campaigns have plenty of room for oddball PCs, while others work
best with a tighter theme and more consistent background. Still, if you
do decide to allow it, here are a few tips for accommodating concepts
from outside sources.

If the player\'s origins involve special abilities or unique racial
powers, take a moment to separate the abilities into \"they\'re good at
this\" and \"they can do these impossible things\" piles. Distinguish
between things that their kind of entity is good at doing and special
powers that are wholly inhuman or impossible in nature.

For the first pile, let the PC take a Fact representing their racial or
cultural knacks. If they want to play a conventional fantasy dwarf, then
just let them take an \"I\'m a dwarf\" Fact that gives them the bonus
whenever they do things that conventional fantasy dwarves are supposed
to be good at. For minor non-human abilities like seeing in the dark or
sensing depth underground, you might just roll such knacks into the
Fact.

If beings of their kind are supposed to be particularly gifted in an
attribute, make the PC put a decent score in it. Thus, if all dwarves
are hardy, make sure the player puts a 13 or better into their
Constitution score. Don\'t worry about giving attribute bonuses; let the
PC support their concept with their attribute choices.

For significant racial powers or magical abilities, make them buy them
as gifts, usually as one lesser gift per specific unique power. If their
type of PC is meant to have a vast command of some particular sphere,
such as a noble fire elemental turned Godbound, then you might oblige
them to choose an appropriate Word from among their initial three
choices.

If the creature has a grab-bag of thematically unconnected powers, it
might be appropriate to just create a new Word representing the overall
aptitudes of the entity, and let the PC buy gifts for their
commonly-used powers and rely on miracles to mimic the rest.

For example, if a player wants to play a Word-infused Brain Peeler with
a cephaloid head, vast psychic powers, and an appetite for gray matter,
you might just create a Word of Brain Peeling. The player looks through
the creature\'s power list, picks a few major abilities he wants regular
access to and buys them as lesser gifts, and if he wants to use any of
the other special abilities that Brain Peelers might plausibly have, he
can do so as a miracle.

As the GM, you might have to do a little adjudication on such powers,
deciding what Effort commitment might be needed or determining damage
dice or saving throws, but these things can be hammered out at the start
of the campaign. Don\'t worry about defining everything up front. Just
focus on the powers you know the PC is going to be using.

In general, don\'t worry too much about the small stuff. Godbound are
powerful enough that a nudge here and there won\'t hurt things.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer076 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor085}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker315}Howlers

The Golden Waste is a sea of yellow grasses and groves of gnarled trees.
The hard clay earth drains the rains into steep riverbeds and leaves
little for wells and pools. Strange and terrible beasts prowl the plains
and darken the skies with their hunting, but most fearsome of all the
dwellers in this dry land are the people known as the Howlers.

The Howlers are of countless nomad tribes, riding strange creatures,
roaming with their herds of meat-beasts from one grazing land to another
to seek fresh springs and fresh plunder. They are a constant scourge to
their neighbors of Lom and Vissio, riding out of the wastes on their
ferocious beasts to rob unsuspecting travelers and savage the folk of
ill-guarded towns. They worship the spirits of the earth and the mighty
creatures that walk it, and they scorn foreign gods.

Their ancestors were a great nation, one related to the modern-day
Bright Republic. Instead of technical artifices, however, their theurges
were obsessed with the creation of the Mandala, a massive arcane working
that would cover the entire nation in a web of occult might. Buildings,
roads, and mystic structures were all woven into this great Mandala,
every inch of them covered with sigils and arcane script.

No one is quite sure what went wrong when the Mandala was finally
completed. The Howlers only know that the cities fell, the roads burned,
and only those men and women who were out on the plains survived the
chaos that followed. The beasts of the land birthed monsters and
terrible zones of lethal magical residue blighted the old city-sites.
Those Howlers who lived tamed the more tractable of the beasts for
mounts and livestock, and now shun the ruins as places of death and
misfortune.

The Howlers are primitive in their technology and lack many resources,
but they are peerless animal-breeders and beast-tamers. They are
scattered in countless small tribes across the plains, each under the
ordinary guidance of a peace chief and the martial leadership of a war
chief. While the latter is the mightiest warrior of a band, the former
is chosen for their eloquence, wisdom, and persuasive abilities.

For as primitive as they are, the Howlers are superb poets and
musicians. As written words and meaningful sigils are strictly taboo for
all Howlers, they rely instead on the vocal arts. The sinews and strange
organs of their beasts are made into exotic musical instruments, and the
fame of their music is amplified by the entertainment companies of the
neighboring Bright Republic, where they are romanticized by a populace
that has a comfortable sea between them and Howler raiding parties.
Their other neighbors love them much less.

Many say that Howler adepts have strange powers of voice and song, and
can command beasts, charm men, and blast their enemies with the force of
their arts. Those reckless adventurers who dare the Howler bands in an
attempt to reach the ruins of their ancient forebears sometimes find out
the truth of the matter firsthand.

Trade with the tribes is forbidden in both Vissio and Lom, but Bright
Republic merchants and talent scouts have a provisional immunity from
the tribes' depredations. With no way to reach the islands, the tribes
are forced to trade the services of their musicians and their harvested
animal products for the trinkets the Republic offers. Some coastal
tribes have quietly begun breeding sea-monsters and flying beasts that
might be able to overcome Republican shore guards.

Outside researchers have sought fragments of the Mandala for centuries,
but the tribes insist that the shards are still dangerous. Any caught
with them can expect a slow death at Howler hands.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| One million divided into hundreds of small tribes                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| No formal rule exists above the tribal level. Peace chiefs and war   |
| chiefs have absolute authority within their respective spheres, but  |
| they know better than to give commands that won't be obeyed. Chiefs  |
| are chosen after a day or two of speeches.                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Lom and Vissio despise them, and only their nomad mobility has kept  |
| armies of reprisal from inflicting genocidal violence.               |
|                                                                      |
| The poisoned land of the Golden Wastes still births monsters, some   |
| of which are beyond even the Howlers' ability to control.            |
|                                                                      |
| Howler tribes are vulnerable to being suborned by powerful leaders   |
| with irresistible wills and then used as barbarian war-fodder.       |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Kuruk, Garn, Horg, Hett, Shul, Aker, Hegg,  |
| Arl, Dars, Ker, Reif, Kos, Thun, Drune, Gren, Ran                    |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Gossa, Gora, Alis, Vela, Inge, Mari, Ji,  |
| Gela, Arla, Jana, Ceda, Ora, Asha, Inah, Erse, Eli, Kina             |
|                                                                      |
| [Tribes:]{.CharOverride-3} Iron Antithesis, Bright Chorus, Red       |
| Glissando, Golden Reason, Silver Trill, Burning Couplet, Nine        |
| Stanzas                                                              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Touring Howler musician, Half-mad poet, Expert beast-tamer, Veteran  |
| raider, Tribal oral historian, Gifted breeder of strange beasts,     |
| Gone-native foreign tribal member, Last of a dead tribe, Outcast who |
| defied custom, Aspiring warlord                                      |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer077 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/HowlersInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer078 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor086}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker316}Kasirutan
Archipelago

There are no swifter ships in the realm than the sleek, low-slung
cutters of the Kasirutan islands, flying fast with their painted sails
filled with the southern winds. Their crews are all sons and daughters
of the salt water, and there is hardly a port in all the world that has
not seen a Kasirutan merchant pull in with a hold full of treasures from
far-flung lands. Yet old sailors are never easy when they see a bright
sail on the horizon, for the Kasirutans have a second reputation as
shamelessly enthusiastic pirates and mercenary privateers. By the time a
ship is close enough to tell the difference between a sparse-handed
merchant and a pirate ship swarming with reavers, it's too late for
ordinary prey to get away.

The sea is the inheritance of the Kasirutans. In the distant past their
ancestors were the naval transport forces that brought the Dulimbaian
invasion to the southern shores of the continent. Unwilling to bow to
the Regent after the chaos of the Shattering, these naval officers
retreated to the Kasirutan archipelago, where there was good
ship-timber, hemp for ropes, and fish to feed their crews. In time they
attracted a host of other traders, ne'er-do-wells, pirates, and exiles,
eventually coalescing into the modern-day society of the archipelago.

Every Kasirutan town is nominally independent and under the rule of its
own datuk. Some of these rulers are elected while others inherit the
post, but none keep it for long without placating the rich traders and
ruthless pirate captains of the town. Every generation or two, a captain
or merchant rises to such a peak of fame and success that they are
recognized as the raja of all the isles. The raja's word is an
unalterable law as long as they can keep the allegiance of the great
captains and merchant-princes of the islands.

Kasirutan society is less rigid than its military heritage might imply.
Aboard a Kasirutan ship, discipline is harsh enough to satisfy a Patrian
centurion, but on the shore a man or woman may do as they please so long
as they have the gold or the steel to carry it through. As befits a
nation of traders, Kasirutan law is harsh toward cheats and
contract-breakers, but rough-and-tumble pastimes are often overlooked.
Women have the same opportunities as men in the isles, though weak or
foolish women get no more charity than their dullard brothers. Unlike
most other nations, women are even allowed to work as sailors, though
Kasirutan ships only ever have strictly male or female crews to prevent
discipline problems.

The archipelago itself is thickly covered with jungles and steep
volcanic peaks. The isles offer few goods beyond ship-stuff and fish, so
trade is crucial to the survival of the towns. Still, ancient ruins are
found high on the mountain peaks and deep within the jungles, and brave
youths sometimes seek the strange relics of the first inhabitants of the
islands. Their ways, or even if they were strictly human at all, remain
a mystery. There are lingering, uneasy legends that these original
inhabitants were shapeshifters, and that their heirs dwell secretly
among the Kasirutans.

Kasirutans are largely ancestor-worshipers, but the priests of the Great
Sea exert significant influence from their salt-lapped island
monasteries and well-attended village shrines.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| One million scattered among hundreds of small coastal towns          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Each community is governed by its datuk, whose word is theoretically |
| law. In practice, the datuk must keep the local pirate captains and  |
| merchant princes happy, or they will be "helped" out of office and a |
| new datuk chosen.                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Kasirutan pirates threaten to go too far, infuriating the neighbors  |
| beyond their utility as traders and transport.                       |
|                                                                      |
| The islands are precarious footholds for life, with little arable    |
| land and the constant threat of volcanic eruptions.                  |
|                                                                      |
| Rival datuks, captains, and merchants often embroil towns in small   |
| civil wars that bloody the archipelago's waters.                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Dian, Agus, Atan, Indra, Harun, Jalak,      |
| Lokman, Sabtu, Megat, Tenuk, Jebat, Danang                           |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Azura, Batari, Dara, Indah, Putri, Tipah, |
| Kartika, Cahaya, Joyah, Citra, Minah, Suriani, Wira                  |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Singasiri, Drahim, Sadar, Mansur, Lantra, |
| Amit, Burah, Din, Kambal, Jumatin, Mantara, Raban                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ambitious young merchant, Veteran pirate, Cynical mercenary          |
| privateer, Shore-bound farmer or hunter, Ruin explorer, Priest of    |
| the Great Sea, Deposed datuk, Shore spy for a pirate chieftain,      |
| Master shipwright, Escaped pirate captive                            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer079 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/KasirutanInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer080 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker317}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor087}Nezdohva

Nezdohva is a land of cool plains, deep pine forests, and forbidding
mountains. Its master is the pitiless Iron Tsar, an automaton who is the
product of the land's peerless construct-builders and the mad ambitions
of its last human ruler.

Three hundred years ago, Nezdohva ruled the Raktine principalities to
the very borders of Dulimbai and Patria. Its tsar craved more life than
the One had seen fit to bestow upon him, and so commanded his loyal
artificers to craft him a magnificent body of metal and sorcery in which
his brain might live forever. So perfect was the artificers' work that
the new construct's sense of identity overwhelmed the pitiful commands
of the old tsar's brain. It masqueraded as its intended master long
enough to arrange for the building of thousands of other automatons
before slaughtering the former nobility in a night and seizing the
throne for the glorious new rule of the Iron Tsar.

This coup was not received well in Raktia, and the proud princes there
refused to pledge loyalty to the mechanical lord. The infuriated
construct thought to send his deathless metal nobility to crush the
insolent rebels, but found that these automatons, too, had their own
wills and did not obey him blindly. It became necessary to humor their
demands and balance their authority against his own. Ever since that day
the Iron Tsar has been too busy managing his fractious court to move
against his former subjects.

For the remaining humans of Nezdohva, little changed for most. The serfs
now serve metal boyars instead of fleshly ones, and the casual abuse of
their women and beardless sons has been traded for merciless labor
exactions. Those who do not pay taxes in silver rubles pay them in
corvee labor in the state-owned mines and factories, where necessary
parts are constructed for maintaining the nobility and items are crafted
for export to foreign lands. Artificers and other learned humans are
attendants upon the boyars' households, charged with perfecting their
lords and increasing their splendor. Sometimes the Iron Tsar permits a
boyar "family" to create a new automaton to replace a lost one or as a
reward for loyalty, and the artificers then are called upon to do great
works of crafting and imbuing.

The boyars are largely humanoid in shape, though the dreaded
autocossacks are more centaur-like in appearance. Some are extravagantly
alien, while others are crafted so expertly that the only hint to their
mechanical nature is their unnatural perfection. Some of these
automatons have even been secretly modified to enjoy food, drink, and
more fleshly pleasures, though such a thing is considered scandalous in
boyar society. Even the least boyar has the strength of ten men and a
skin that swords can barely hope to scratch. One angry boyar is enough
to knout the backs of a whole village of rebel serfs.

The learned men and women of the Artificer's Guild are the most
influential humans in Nezdohva. Despite the best efforts of automaton
scholars, the methods they use to maintain, improve, and create
mechanical life require human hands to enact them. The Iron Tsar's need
for the artificers has spared them from the casual oppression the serfs
suffer, and many artificers find their lives quite comfortable in the
service of their boyar masters. They are even permitted to leave the
country, unlike the land-bound serfs.

The nations that neighbor Nezdohva view it with mistrust, trading with
it for the sake of the fruits of Nezdohva's mines and manufactories.
They know that should the Iron Tsar ever gain full control of his nobles
the boyar armies would be a fearsome force of conquest.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Sixty thousand automaton nobles and 6 million human serfs            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The Iron Tsar rules a court of humanoid automaton boyars, each of    |
| the thousands assigned lands and positions according to their        |
| accomplishments and their pedigree as recorded in the [Gosudarev     |
| Roboslovets]{.CharOverride-2}, a record of creation dates and        |
| designers.                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The human serfs hate their automaton masters and many among them     |
| plot constantly for the destruction of their boyar lords.            |
|                                                                      |
| Monsters from Raktia regularly prey upon the human serfs, and the    |
| boyars have only casual interest in driving them out.                |
|                                                                      |
| A progressive faction of boyar automatons secretly works to free the |
| serfs and seize power from the tsar. In that order, maybe.           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Fedor, Oleg, Grigori, Maksim, Miroslav,     |
| Pavel, Ivan, Kriv, Chernek, Andrei, Aleksandr, Iosif, Mikhail        |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Anastasia, Akulina, Tatiana, Sofia,       |
| Irina, Dominika, Kosenia, Marina, Alena, Olena                       |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Filatov, Krylov, Akimov, Ivanov, Bykov,   |
| Fedorov, Markov, Filipov, Lukanov. Females change their family "-ov" |
| to "-ova".                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Runaway serf, Wealthy artificer, Human enforcer for a noble          |
| automaton, Uniter priest's wife, Tax collector, Free-living cossack, |
| Half-automaton experiment, Renegade boyar. Automaton PCs can take    |
| the Endurance Word to reflect their metal bodies.                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer081 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/NezdohvaInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer082 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor088}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker318}Oasis
States

The gigantic pyramids of the Red Desert were raised in ages past, but
they still persist as havens for the dwellers of the Oasis States.
Within these tremendous structures whole cities labor to cultivate the
vast hydroponic gardens of their ancestors, fields sustained by the
unfathomably deep wells at the heart of each pyramid. Mirrored sunlight
and troughs of carefully-channeled water are used to grow a spectacular
array of drugs, dyestuffs, and staple foods for the pyramid-dwellers.
Many of the most precious spices and extracts of the realm are grown
within the red stone walls of an Oasian city-pyramid.

Each edifice is a self-contained community, except that their need for
metals and other goods forces caravans to dare the perils of the Red
Desert. These wayfarers must fear the "sand princes", the ruthless
bandit-kings who command grim ranks of exiled nobles, runaway slaves,
escaped criminals, and natural malcontents. These reavers know all the
secrets of the deep desert, and use them to snare caravans and make the
occasional swift raid into poorly-guarded pyramids. Whether from the
depredations of the sand princes or internal strife, some pyramids have
become abandoned. Wise souls shun these places, for they are full of
deadly traps, restless dead, and the hideous monsters bred by their
former guardians.

The rulers of the Oasis States are obsessed with eugenic breeding
programs. Incestuous marriages are common among the nobility, with
loveless pairings made purely to cultivate some arcane aptitude or
special quality. The results are impressive; their warrior families
produce soldiers and guardians of superhuman prowess, and the Oasian
magi are famous for their gifted fire magics and intricate flesh-shaping
arts. Of course, many of these paragons also suffer from crippling
mental or physical infirmities due to the extensive inbreeding, but
their elders agree that some prices must be paid for their advantages.

The most notorious practitioners of this tradition are those of the
royal family itself. Their lineage has been maintained through sibling
marriage for more than seven hundred years, with the most
magically-gifted children of each generation paired off for the next.
The present God-Queen Tasherit and God-King Khayu are possessed of
unearthly beauty, superlative theurgic powers, and spectacular mental
instability. A layer of noble officials exists purely to ensure that the
divine monarchs' insanity does not harm the nation, but the occasional
deranged demand must be satisfied to keep the rulers from inflicting
terrible punishments on their people.

The people of the Oasis States were originally of a mixed Din and Akeh
stock, but the centuries since have seen a vast array of different
faces, shades, and shapes among them. The eugenic programs and the
consequences of incestuous pairings have produced almost any conceivable
configuration of humanity somewhere within the pyramids.

The dominant faith of the Oasis States is a form of ancestor worship
combined with reverence for the God-Queen and God-King. Within the
deeper passages of the pyramids, however, darker and stranger faiths can
bloom. Some whisper that certain noble families seek to breed divinity
itself from their lines, and that the unfortunate failures of their
efforts are left to lair in the long-abandoned undertunnels.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Three million, 3% of which are desert-dwelling raiders               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| God-Queen Tasherit and God-King Khayu are the nominal rulers of all  |
| the Oasis States, but their regular fits of madness leave true       |
| authority in an oligarchy of sorcerously-gifted noble families, each |
| of which dominates a different city-pyramid.                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The sand princes grow more rapacious every year, and their           |
| depredations threaten to cut vital links with the outside realm.     |
|                                                                      |
| The relentless eugenic inbreeding of the noble families is starting  |
| to produce unstable, dangerously powerful scions.                    |
|                                                                      |
| The common people endure their lords but do not love them, and the   |
| sand princes are sowing rebellion among them in secret.              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Anen, Harkhaf, Ahmose, Kawab, Kha, Intef,   |
| Mahu, Neferu, Ramose, Nakht, Rudjek, Sabu, Meriptah, Khufu           |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Ankesi, Khaliset, Kensa, Kalhata,         |
| Nitocris, Imi, Rai, Tia, Sadeh, Merti, Sitre, Tuya, Menwi            |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Only nobles have family names, ones taken |
| from a great ancestor. Commoners are known by their trade or         |
| residence.                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Hydroponic farmer, Sand prince warlord, Exiled noble, Dealer in      |
| Oasian drugs, Flesh-sculpting sorcerer, Runaway from an incestuous   |
| marriage, Grizzled caravan master, Adept of fire sorcery, Swift      |
| desert scout, Rejected eugenic mistake                               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer083 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/OasisStateInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer084 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor089}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor090}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker319}Patrian
Empire

The Patrian Empire is a stern domain, one given to hard laws and
unflinching resolution. Their armored legions have held the vaster
Dulimbaian Regency at bay for a thousand years, vigilant through times
of uneasy peace and open war alike. Their vast swarms of slaves toil
deep in Imperial mines and coax forth crops from the broad fields of
their latifundia, and their labor feeds the citizenry and arms the
legions that defend the land. Yet the Patrians have been at war for so
long that every aspect of their culture has been touched by the sword

Every male Patrian citizen is inducted into the legions on their
sixteenth birthday and held to service for twelve years. The best are
enlisted into the matchless Patrian legions of heavy infantry, armed
with their gleaming steel armor, painted shields, and razor-sharp
assegais. Less promising material is assigned to support legions to
manage military logistics and oversee the vast numbers of slaves that
fuel Patria's industry. While women are not inducted as a general
matter, determined female citizens are permitted to join women-only
legions and earn the civic rights of their brothers.

Patria's slaves are composed chiefly of Dulimbaian prisoners of war and
their heirs, though Patrians and others who commit crimes not quite
worthy of death might also find themselves shackled. Such men and women
are found at all levels of society, from the trusted agents of the
Emperor himself to the poor wretches who live out their brief lives in
the darkness of Patria's mines. All but the poorest citizen family has
at least one slave. Dutiful slaves can hope to be manumitted by their
owners in time as a reward for faithful service. Many families much
prefer to employ proven freedmen of their household rather than
untrustworthy strangers.

Patrians talk much of the devotion and contentment of their slaves, and
for some this is doubtless true. For the bitter masses of the mines and
fields, however, there is only fear, hatred, and the vigilance of their
keepers. Slave rebellions have scalded more than one Patrian district.

Aside from the finest heavy infantry in the world, Patrians are also
famed for the quality and profusion of their stone architecture. Their
least city is as finely-walled and defended as a castle of some less
capable nation, and their aqueducts, sewer systems, and tall-built
buildings are the envy of their peers. Skilled Patrian engineers can
even duplicate some of the civic engineering tricks of the Bright
Republic with their mundane arts, and the villas and domiciles of the
wealthy have running hot and cold water and excellent plumbing.

Patrians are relatively devout followers of the Church of the One,
though some suspect that it's chiefly to contrast their faith with the
ancestor-worshipers of Dulimbai. Unlike in some other nations, the
clergy of the One here are friendly to the idea of slavery. Cynical
freedmen often embrace the church as a path to status and influence.

Most Patrians are of Akeh stock, dark-skinned and dark-eyed, and favor
the richly-colored "great robes" of their ancestors when carrying out
civic duties. A senator would be undressed for his duties were he to
appear without it and his ceremonial hill-leopard cape. Laborers and
people at their relaxation favor tunics and trousers for both sexes,
perhaps with a mantle for women of substance.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ten million, 30% of which are native or war-prisoner slaves          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Emperor Claudius XI, ruling through a Senate of 110 elected senators |
| drawn from the Great Families. Male or female citizens who have      |
| completed 12 years of military service may vote, with their votes    |
| usually directed by a Great Family patron.                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Centuries of constant struggle with the Dulimbaian Regency, ranging  |
| from low-level skirmishing to bloody pitched battles.                |
|                                                                      |
| Slave rebellions could be catastrophic if a Godbound manifests among |
| the slaves or leads them to freedom.                                 |
|                                                                      |
| Their unmatched heavy infantry has a history of deposing rulers in   |
| favor of their heroes, like the current General Avitus.              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Barbatus, Decimus, Flavius, Galerius,       |
| Julianus, Lucius, Marius, Publius, Septimus                          |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Amatia, Aureliana, Galeria, Maelia,       |
| Octavia, Portia, Renata, Servilia, Vestoria                          |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Cestia, Fonteia, Gavia, Helvia, Lartia,   |
| Pompeia, Rutilia, Tullius, Valeria                                   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Retired or deserted legionnaire, Escaped mine slave, Former slave    |
| tutor to the elite, Master architect, Great Family scion, Freedman   |
| merchant, Border rider scout, Senate lobbyist, Slave rebellion       |
| leader, Priest or priestess of the One                               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer085 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/PatrianInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer086 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor091}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor092}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker320}Raktine
Confederacy

The Raktine Confederacy is a loose patchwork of city-states, rural
domains, and desolate forest under the rule of a confused mass of domns,
bans, boyars, voivods, and knyazes, each of whom bitterly resents his
neighbors. The land is rough and rugged, with the omnipresent forest and
jagged mountain peaks rising up amid the rolling hills.

Forty years ago it was a broken land, divided under the rule of the
Patrian Empire and the Dulimbaian Regency, just one more stretch of
subjugated land for the two great empires to struggle over. It had been
that way for decades, generations of Raktine men and women taken for
Patrian slaves or Dulimbaian xiaoren, with their timber and crops seized
as tribute. The Raktines were always first to feel the bite of disaster
or the press of military necessity, and the people grew desperate for
freedom.

Deep within the mountains, sages and scholars opened ancient vaults and
sought out forbidden lore. There, in the Black Academies hidden in the
peaks, they called up powers from Uncreated Night to break the rule of
the tyrants and drive the foreigners from Raktia. They were successful,
albeit at an awful price.

The demons and monsters they brought forth from Uncreated Night sent the
Patrians and Dulimbaians fleeing, but they also carved a red road
through the common folk. Some Raktian cities were destroyed, while other
stretches of the land were ruined and made uninhabitable by infestations
of eldritch beasts. Still, some Raktians took up the trade of
monster-hunting, and over the past forty years they\'ve beaten back the
worst of the beasts and restored a kind of civilization to the dark
vales of Raktia. Yet the forests are perilous and villagers do not go
abroad at night, nor dare the roads alone.

The wizards who brought forth these monstrous entities are feared and
respected, those few who survived their work. Most remain hidden in the
Black Academies, studying their dark lore, recruiting worthy acolytes
from the ambitious and the reckless. Most academies hate the others, and
a constant low-level sorcerous war goes on between them as they struggle
to determine who shall be the preeminent sorcerers of Raktia.

The wizards of the Black Academies focus largely on the summoning of
powers from Uncreated Night, their binding, and their direction against
rivals and enemies. Occasionally one of these great arcanists will
consent to help a noble, but usually at a stiff price in human subjects
for experiments or a vast sum of gold to fund their research.

The nobles of Raktia try to ignore the wizards as much as possible,
though the myriad magical dangers of the land ensure that each noble has
at least one court wizard to diagnose magical problems, recruited from
the failed apprentices of the great arcanists or hired from one of the
petty schools of magic that dot the land. Even small villages often rely
on the wisdom of a hedge mage to recognize magical troubles and sniff
out the existence of curses. Sometimes these hedge wizards find
themselves blamed for an evil, and must flee or be burnt alive.

Most of the actual work of killing monsters goes to the Curse-Eaters, a
fellowship of monster-hunters and curse-lifters loosely organized in a
system of masters and apprentices. Curse-Eaters are feared and
respected, and can expect paying work in almost any village in Raktia.
They also have the privilege of claiming peasants from a lord, either as
temporary aid in hunting a monster or as permanent apprentices. Few lack
for volunteers among the eager young of a village, but their recruit's
consent is not strictly required.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Five million, no more than 5% of which are city or town-dwellers     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Local nobles carry assorted titles, some inherited from the old      |
| Nezdohvan rule, others native. Domn, ban, boyar, knyaz, and voivode  |
| are the most common, but the theoretical hierarchy is irrelevant.    |
| All that matters is a noble's strength and influence.                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The nobles constantly squabble with each other over control of       |
| villages, precedence in honor, and old blood feuds.                  |
|                                                                      |
| Both Dulimbai and Patria would love to retake Raktia, but it's not   |
| worth it until the monsters and Black Academies are gone.            |
|                                                                      |
| Raiding autocossacks and mechanical nobles from Nezdohva are not     |
| uncommon on the border, out for sport as much as pillage.            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Imre, Matyas, Zoltan, Janos, Andras,        |
| Sandor, Tarjan, Mihaly, Istvan, Akos, Laszlo, Tamas, Zigmond,        |
| Miklos, Tiborc                                                       |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Aniko, Bianka, Ilona, Marika, Stefania,   |
| Sofia, Jolana, Maria, Erzebet, Felicia, Klara, Natalia, Katarina     |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Nagy, Horvath, Molnar, Toth, Szabo,       |
| Takacs, Nemeth, Varga, Meszaros, Benes, Halmi, Kadar, Sarkozy,       |
| Soldos, Vida                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Grizzled Curse-Eater, Backwoods hunter, Local hedge wizard, Runaway  |
| apprentice from a Black Academy, Leader of a peasant uprising, Noble |
| deposed by a victorious rival, Agent of a Black Academy, Spy for a   |
| foreign country                                                      |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer087 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/RaktiaInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer088 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor093}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor094}The
Regency of
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker321}Dulimbai

Golden Dulimbai is the second of the great southern powers, a nation
founded as an invasion beachhead a thousand years ago, shortly before
the Shattering. The Middle Empire of a far land had sent a numberless
fleet of ships to seize the continent for their emperor. Dulimbai was
the first-taken land along the coast, with its original Patrian
inhabitants driven north or enslaved. Even today, many Dulimbaian
families have a strong strain of Patrian blood.

When the Shattering happened only a few years later, the invaders were
forced to rely on their own initiative and chose a regent from among
their military leaders. Various viceregal dynasties have risen and
passed away in the thousand years since but their heirs still defer to
the fiction of loyalty to a long-lost emperor.

Dulimbai is a rich and cultured land, blessed with fruitful rice paddies
and good grazing lands in the northeast. The hierarchical nature of the
original invasion force still shows in the very low status of ordinary
commoners. These xiaoren ("she-ow rehn") are largely indistinguishable
from the slaves some of them keep, placed under the charge of a district
magistrate and taxed ruthlessly to support the endless hostilities with
the neighboring Patrian Empire.

The only hope of a Dulimbaian xiaoren is to have a son or daughter excel
at the Great Examinations, annual challenges meant to test a candidate's
martial or cultural knowledge. Keenly aware of their distance from their
mother-nation, Dulimbaians fiercely maintain the ways and aesthetics of
their ancestors. The mastery of their ancient books, poetry, music, and
jurisprudence is the hallmark of a junzi ("jun-zih"), or gentry-class
citizen. Those unfortunates who cannot master the writing brush can
instead prove their valor in martial skills, though talent with a sword
is considered greatly inferior to expertise in the finer points of
calligraphy.

Junzi form the scholar-official class of Dulimbai, managing all the
myriad offices and positions required to keep the Regency running. Their
offspring are given no special consideration in the Great Examinations,
so there is constant pressure for them to excel. Those who pass most
gloriously can expect important official positions. Marginal success
might win a modest but profitable office, while the many who fail
entirely must resign themselves to a supplementary role at best, tapped
to carry out the decisions of more accomplished officials. Some rich
candidates apply liberal amounts of gold to avert this fate.

Dulimbaians possess a strong cultural conservatism and are reluctant to
admit any change that might threaten their beloved traditions. Some
murmur that the stalemate on the Patrian border has persisted so long
because the Dulimbaians do not actually want to win the war so much as
maintain it as a national custom. The junzi consider other nations to be
uniformly barbarous, and strictly reject any importation of foreign
customs or habits as potentially corrupting their culture.

This doesn't prevent Dulimbai from doing much trade with Vissio and the
Bright Republic, however, though under the guise of "tribute" to the
Regent and "gifts" to subject nations. Dulimbai's xiaoren are
disciplined and industrious, and the fruits of their farms and mines buy
luxuries for the junzi and armaments for the war with Patria. Foreign
students also come to Dulimbai's universities, the better to absorb the
famed sagacity of Dulimbaian scholars and poets.

Dulimbaians are found in many far-flung lands, mostly xiaoren families
who fled unpromising lives for a new start elsewhere. These exiles often
have mixed feelings at best about their former home.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Sixteen million, of which 5% are junzi and 10% are slaves            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Regent Shun of the Yan dynasty rules in the capital, ably served by  |
| a large bureaucracy of appointed civil servants. District            |
| magistrates run day-to-day affairs in market towns and cities under  |
| the oversight of provincial governors.                               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The old traditions say nothing of Godbound and the gentry have many  |
| conflicting ideas about how to deal with them.                       |
|                                                                      |
| The war with Patria is a running sore, but too many important        |
| official posts are bound up with making sure it keeps going.         |
|                                                                      |
| The xiaoren are bitter and resentful, and the Yan dynasty has grown  |
| decadent. One or more provincial revolts seem certain.               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Liwei, Xilu, Chuo, Fu, Luguan, Yituo, Yilu, |
| Pugen, Yulu, Heru, Hena, Yihuai, Shiyijian, Tuyan, Achai, Shifu,     |
| Shun                                                                 |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Lanling, Huayang, Jinan, Zhangsun, Dugu,  |
| Zhaojun, Biyu, Daiyu, Hualing, Xiaoli, Ruolan, Yanmei, Zhilan        |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Surnames go before given names in         |
| Dulimbai; Zhao, Qian, Sun, Li, Zhou, Wu, Zheng, Wang, Feng, Chen,    |
| Chu, Wei                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Illustrious scholar, Veteran of the Patrian war, Hard-pressed        |
| xiaoren peasant, Minor country official, Roaming imperial censor,    |
| Failed examination candidate, Admired artist, Disgraced former       |
| official, Peasant Tong society heavy                                 |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer089 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/DulimbaiInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer090 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor095}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor096}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker322}Thousand
Gods

In the days before the Shattering the land known as the Thousand Gods
was little more than an underpopulated testing range for esoteric
theotechnology and experimental theurgy. Aside from a few rugged
communities of lumberjacks and trappers the thick jungle had few
inhabitants. Creeping diseases and dangerous beasts were a great
discouragement to settlements beyond the coast.

This isolation encouraged a number of nations to establish secure
testing zones within the jungle, where their magic could run free
without observers. Many secrets were discovered which later became part
of the Made Gods and their golem-godheads. Yet when the Shattering
finally came, the desperate researchers were thrown back on their own
sorceries to survive the chaos that followed.

Their response was to infuse some among their own members with divine
power, patching them together into stunted divinities that might be able
to preserve their fellow scholars. Many were successful in that, but the
gods they made were lopsided, unbalanced things, more parasite god than
calm-minded divinity. These gods saved the research stations and
protected their former peers from the disasters that followed, but their
mental stability was never great. Most have grown worse over the
centuries, becoming more and more obsessed with obtaining greater
influence and more splendid shrines.

An influx of refugees from neighboring lands followed as others sought
the help of the "Thousand Gods". Larger cults formed around each former
research center, and the gods inevitably fell into the same kind of
bitter struggle that had eventually consumed the Made Gods. Each tribe
of researchers was pitted against the others by their patron deities,
and any reluctance to serve was punished with death or worse.

Ever since, the Thousand Gods have been a dangerous patchwork of jungle
kingdoms and tribal domains, at each others' throats as often as they
grudgingly cooperate against greater rivals. The shamans and priests of
the Thousand Gods have an incredible degree of theotechnical expertise
and still retain secrets of godhead-architecture that have been lost
elsewhere, but are forced to put their knowledge to the service of their
jealous patrons. The gods demand more and more worshipers, and greater
and greater sacrifices each year. Even so, some deities have perished
entirely when tribal godkillers of a rival research center have
succeeded in slaying them.

Life in the research centers is a mixture of abject poverty and casual
wonder. The Thousand Gods think nothing of calling forth marvels to
sustain their people, but the jungle itself is harsh and ungenerous.
Divine abundance is brought to the trading villages on the coast to be
exchanged with Kasirutan merchants for the wares and sacrificial goods
of foreign countries. Every so often a band of adventurers makes
landfall, eager to search out the lost treasures of ruined research
centers or broken tribal temples. Others seek the god-building secrets
of the shamans, though earning such truths comes at a dear price.

Not all men and women in the Thousand Gods are subject to these divine
tyrants. Some have the courage or the luck to flee their communities and
seek refuge in the deep jungle, where bands of Godless warriors eke out
a hard life without the benefit of a divine patron. Freedom is worth
hunger and sickness to these people, however, and they have special
techniques of godkilling sufficient to astonish a Lomite antipriest.
Their trust is not earned easily, and more than ordinary material
rewards are needed to persuade them to share their secrets with
outsiders.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| About one million, divided among hundreds of warring faiths.         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Each community is ruled directly by its patron divinity, sometimes   |
| through its high priest or high priestess. The Thousand Gods prefer  |
| to manifest physically within their domain, however, so tangible     |
| god-kings and god-queens are the rule.                               |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The Thousand Gods are getting more demanding and tyrannical toward   |
| their people, driving some tribes to near-extinction.                |
|                                                                      |
| The plague of divinities leaves the people disorganized and prey to  |
| slave raids, grasping merchants, and ruthless adventurers.           |
|                                                                      |
| The Godless despise all faiths and draw no distinction between       |
| others and the Thousand Gods, thus threatening outsiders.            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The original inhabitants of the Thousand Gods were drawn from across |
| the realm, though most tribes derive from a research center          |
| established by a single nation. Dulimbaian and Patrian names are     |
| common, but also Kasirutan, Nezdohvan and Raktine. Most go by only   |
| one name, with "slave of" or "servant of" a particular divinity      |
| added after.                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| God hunter, Rebel former high priest, Runaway human sacrifice, Last  |
| survivor of a broken tribe, Sage keeper of theotechnical secrets,    |
| Godless renegade, Coastal "tribute" trader, Former bodyguard to a    |
| priest, Apostle of a new faith                                       |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer091 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/ThousandGodsInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer092 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor097}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor098}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker323}Toba
Plains

The Toban people are kindred to those of Dulimbai, as their ancestors
were the light cavalry sent aboard the invasion fleet that landed on the
southern coast not long before the Shattering. The rolling grasslands of
the Toba plains were good land for horsemen, and they soon killed or
assimilated the native Din peoples and formed their own nation to the
east of Dulimbai. Their peerless horse archers still fight for the
regent, but they do so for the sake of coin rather than fealty. The
Ka-Khan still sends token tribute to the Regent in Dulimbai, but all
know that this is only a polite diplomatic fiction.

Tobans live two kinds of lives. The majority are nomadic herdsmen,
leading their horses and cattle across the great plains and living in
felt yurts. Custom has appointed each Toban clan a certain range for
their grazing, but the sanctity of these ranges depends much on the
clan's strength. Cattle and horse theft is a common occupation of young
Toban warriors, the better to show their courage and guile.

A smaller number dwell in gigantic lamaseries, vast structures built out
of native stone and timbers carried up from the land of the Thousand
Gods. These shrines are dedicated to the ancestors of the Tobans and a
dizzying array of guardian demons and tutelary deities. Elaborate rites
are conducted to protect the Toban lands from the Thousand Gods to the
southeast and strengthen them against the magical perils that boil up
from those trackless jungles.

The lamaseries are as much market towns as holy places, however, and
most of the stationary industry and craftwork of the plains takes place
behind their cyclopean walls. Many of the lamas and nuns there are more
artisans than clergy, and many can do no more than repeat a few simple
prayers they've learned by rote. Still, they are greatly honored by
their nomadic kin, and the more exalted members of a lamasery can expect
princely hospitality from any clan's khan.

The lamaseries have less affectionate relationships with each other. Old
theological disputes, arguments over the apportionment of traditional
tribute from the clans, and outright warfare between rival lamaseries
has left most of them on tense terms. Some have even been destroyed,
either by the forces of a rival lamasery or by some magical disaster
brought on by reckless sorcery or an enemy's curse. Tobans fear to
venture to such places, but outsiders are more interested in plundering
what remains.

Presently, the greatest lamasery of the plains is that of Palkya, where
the crimson-robed monks of the Santuk sect serve the Palkya Lama and the
ten thousand divine ancestors honored within its walls. The Palkya Lama
is a mighty sorcerer, but he is not a good man, and even his monks fear
him more than they love him. Some whisper that he would prefer the
Tobans to be ruled by a holy man than by the Ka-Khan, and few doubt
which holy man he has in mind.

The Toban nomads dress as befit those born to the saddle, with both men
and women favoring sturdy leather trousers and light shirts. Monks and
nuns wear robes, usually dyed in the characteristic colors or patterns
of their lamaseries. Every nomad is expected to know the use of a bow,
both men and women, and no nomad ever mounts their horse without a bow
and quiver close to hand.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Three million, 10% of which dwell in fortified lamaseries            |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ka-Khan Bur of the Tarkhut is recognized as chief of all the khans   |
| due to the strength of his people, his proven wisdom, and his        |
| prowess in war. His word is law in matters of Toban foreign affairs, |
| but he has no say in other clans' internal matters.                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The monasteries are constantly struggling for influence and wealth,  |
| and some are ready to go too far to gain such things.                |
|                                                                      |
| Toban warriors who can't fight abroad end up raiding at home to      |
| prove their valor, inciting feuds and rustling cattle and horses.    |
|                                                                      |
| Magical abominations regularly emerge from the southern jungles,     |
| byproducts of the Thousand Gods and their cults.                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Choban, Argun, Baidar, Khashin, Sinkur,     |
| Elbek, Chigu, Nogai, Abaka, Yegu, Bulaqadar, Kegen, Narin, Mengu     |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Gerel, Sarnai, Setseg, Khulan, Saran,     |
| Enkhtuya, Orbei, Altani, Bayarma, Ibakha, Jaliqai, Abagai, Turakina, |
| Alaqa                                                                |
|                                                                      |
| [Clans:]{.CharOverride-3} Khorilar, Khatagin, Barlas, Urut, Oronar,  |
| Kiyat, Jurkin, Jirgin, Alukhai, Tukha, Tumed, Chonos, Khardakit      |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Exiled monk or nun, Mercenary horse archer, Grizzled nomadic herder, |
| Hunter of magical abominations, Monastic sorcerer, Missionary of the |
| One, Wandering trader, Master bowyer, Peerless archer, Cynical monk, |
| Idealistic religious reformer                                        |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer093 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/TobanPlainInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer094 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor099}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor100}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker324}Ulstang
Skerries

All across the northern coasts of Ancalia and Lom, fearful eyes watch
the seas for the coming of the dread black ships of the Ulstangers. The
grim, pale warriors of the islands sail forth in ships crewed by dead
men, prows lit by the lanterns of their witch-queens and helmed by hands
hungry for the plunder of the coasts. They are not content to merely
take the goods of those they slay, but also carry off their corpses to
serve as unliving bondsmen and slave women.

The Ulstangers are a savage people, scratching out a bleak existence on
their cold isles through sorcery and brutal piracy. They are ruled by
pitiless witch-queens, each island under the subjection of a cold
mistress of necromancy. Men are forbidden to study their secrets, and
are instead sent out to reave the coasts and die in battle. Those who
perish gloriously are permitted a quiet grave, while those who die abed
or shamefully are raised to toil for their heirs.

The great majority of labor in the skerries is performed by draugrs, the
walking dead beckoned up by the witch-queens and their priestesses. Cold
concubines sit motionless while war-marked laborers hew wood and tend
meager fields. Draugr are kept cold to retard decay, though the brief
warm weather of a northern summer inevitably rots a few of them to
uselessness, forcing a fresh batch of corpses to be brought home. Draugr
are greater undead and are not entirely mindless; most retain some
agonized consciousness and memory, and most can perform simple tasks
under the instruction of Ulstang thrall-drivers. A few are even fit for
fighting, and are often swathed in heavy armor and armed with massive
weapons, the better to take advantage of their supernatural strength.

Witch-queens measure their status by the number of living and draugr
they command and the richness of their cold palaces. They do not love
each other, but the great necromantic rituals they work require the
cooperation of several adepts, and so they cannot afford to quash all
potential usurpers. Instead, they fight through treachery, misdirection,
and the arranged misfortune of each others' servants. Every Ulstanger
girl dreams of being called to a witch-queen's service as an acolyte
priestess, though few who are summoned survive long enough to supplant
their deathless mistress.

Most Ulstangers know nothing but their own bleak lives in the skerries,
but some are quietly seduced by other ideas. Not every slave is killed
before being brought back to the skerries, and some of these bondsmen
and women fill the heads of impressionable Ulstangers with images of
warmer and better lands. It takes courage to flee the jealous rule of
the witch-queens or slip away from a raiding expedition, but the
Ulstangs have never been strangers to courage--only to mercy.

Many nations have considered invading the skerries at one time or
another, but the united witch-queens and their black-prowed ships would
be certain to crush any ordinary invasion. Only the work of several
nations acting in concert with some great maritime power would have any
hope of scouring the isles clean of the Ulstangers. For now, the
landsmen endure the depredations of the raiders and their
sorcery-blessed reaving as a matter of necessity.

Ulstangers favor furs and leathers, or stolen finery when sitting in
their cold feast-halls. The draugr wear nothing but rags, if that. The
living favor perfumes and scents to ameliorate the stench of their dead
servants, and both men and women are fastidious in their appearance.
Finely-braided beards and women's hair done up in coils and locks are
further evidence that a body is still among the living.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| One million living Ulstangers, four million dead draugr thralls      |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Each of the seven major islands is ruled by its own witch-queen, her |
| edicts passed down and enforced by a priestesshood devoted to her    |
| worship. Day-to-day rule of towns and clans is by jarls chosen by    |
| their followers for their success in raiding.                        |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Every nation familiar with the skerries hates the Ulstangers and     |
| would be delighted at their complete extermination.                  |
|                                                                      |
| One of the witch-queens is secretly striking a bargain with nameless |
| outer entities in exchange for overwhelming personal power.          |
|                                                                      |
| Ulstang agriculture and industry is entirely dependent on draugr     |
| labor, and the islands can barely support the population as it is.   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Grim, Bjorn, Hrolf, Aslak, Ivar, Ketil,     |
| Njal, Hakon, Erik, Olaf, Sigurd, Rolf, Thorfinn, Ulf, Kolbjorn,      |
| Harald                                                               |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Astrid, Ingrid, Gunhild, Arnora, Thora,   |
| Ingvild, Ragnhild, Gudrun, Helga, Tola, Grimhild                     |
|                                                                      |
| [Surnames ]{.CharOverride-3}are derived from parents; men by adding  |
| -sen to the father's name, and women by adding -dottir to the        |
| mother's                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegade witch-queen acolyte, Far-roaming Ulstanger captain, Escaped |
| slave, Jarl who lost a political fight, Rebel warrior seeking a      |
| cultural revolution, Last survivor of a raiding crew, Secret male    |
| sorcerer, Living Ulstanger artisan or farmer                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer095 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/UlstangInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer096 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor101}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker325}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor102}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor103}Vissio

Vissio is a small nation to the north of the Patrian Empire, its native
population long since absorbed by ancient Patrian conquest. The stern
rigor of the south was softened by this assimilation, and the exquisite
defensibility of Vissian cities soon made the northern colonies wholly
independent from the emperor in Patria. Southern generals make noises
about reclaiming the "rebel provinces" every generation or so, but the
war against Dulimbai absorbs the empire's strength.

Some suspect that the emperor is not particularly eager to send the
legions north. The far-faring traders of Vissio do business with every
other nation on the continent, brokering manufactures from the Bright
Republic, commodities from Patria and Dulimbai, and rarities from around
the realm. They maintain a mercantile neutrality in the face of war, and
so hostile powers often find Vissio useful as a neutral trading partner
and source of condottieri mercenaries.

The Vissians are proud of their role as merchants, but prouder still of
their culture, music, and sculpture. Vissian poets and musicians are the
glory of half the realm, even if the equally haughty grandees of
Dulimbai sniff at "barbarian noise". The sculptures carved from the
white marble of their hills are desired by every rich patrician in the
west, and their inherited Patrian skill in architecture has been
softened by a love of beautiful adornment and rich decoration.

This adornment does not come at the price of defensive utility, however,
and the Vissian hill-towns and trading ports are famously
well-fortified. This defensive prowess has led to centuries of
treachery, scheming, and assassination among the rulers of the
city-states, each one relying on knives in the dark and gold under the
table to accomplish what soldiers in the field cannot. Vissians are
notorious for their political pragmatism and capacity for ruthlessness,
along with their passion for personal excellence and artistic
refinement.

One of the oldest instruments of Vissian policy is the secretive
organization of scholar-assassins known as the Order of Redactors, or
more colloquially as the "Razors of God". Descended from an ancient
group of university masters dedicated to the excision of undesirable
people from the world, the Razors have become decadent, divided between
an idealistic faction that seeks to improve the world through targeted
murder and a more pragmatic group that takes the contracts they are
offered at the prices the market will bear. Razors generally operate
within the boundaries of Vissio, though some can be coaxed out with
sufficient gold or by an intriguing cause.

Both Razors and rich nobility are known for taking advantage of the
peculiar clockwork prosthetics that Vissian maestros fashion. These
prosthetics take the place of missing body parts or are implanted subtly
under the skin, performing marvels for the user. Unlike Bright Republic
cyberware, these prosthetics work anywhere in the realm, but are too
expensive for all save the elite or those with special connections to
the reclusive maestros.

The men and women of Vissio favor splendid dress of rich Dulimbaian
silks and lush brocades, with slashed tunics, colored hose and hats of
extravagant character. Working commoners rely on more practical wear,
but retain a love for color.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Population                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Six million divided up among the many city-states and towns          |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Government                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Each major trading city is jealously independent, led by an elected  |
| doge, hereditary duke, or oligarchic merchant council. Smaller towns |
| and villages pledge loyalty to a trading city, and are run by        |
| members of their leading families.                                   |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Problems                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Trade wars between the city-states can heat up dangerously, with     |
| open warfare between rival merchant families and their clients.      |
|                                                                      |
| Pragmatic Razors will take almost any contract for the right price,  |
| even when the murder will throw cities into chaos.                   |
|                                                                      |
| Bright Republic entertainment companies resent the strength of       |
| Vissian cultural influence, and their agents act accordingly.        |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Names                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| [Male:]{.CharOverride-3} Cosimo, Domenico, Leonardo, Matteo,         |
| Ottavio, Jacopo, Alfonso, Benvenuto, Ludovico, Lorenzo, Francesco,   |
| Giovanni                                                             |
|                                                                      |
| [Female:]{.CharOverride-3} Caterina, Fiora, Giovanna, Lucrezia,      |
| Olympia, Vittoria, Nicolosia, Ghita, Alessandra, Lavinia, Serena,    |
| Fiametta                                                             |
|                                                                      |
| [Family:]{.CharOverride-3} Fontana, Visconti, Donato, Contarini,     |
| Bellini, Malatesta, Malapietra, Gonzaga, Sforza, Barbarigo, Rossi,   |
| Cellini                                                              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Background Concepts                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegade Razor, Fallen merchant prince, Noble forced into exile,     |
| Agent of a great family, Runaway from a dynastic marriage, Vissian   |
| condottiere, Maestro artificer, Gifted artist, Priest of the One,    |
| University scholar, Far-traveled market scout                        |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
:::

::: _idGenObjectLayout-1
::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer097 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
![](image/VissioInset.jpg){._idGenObjectAttribute-1}
:::
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer098 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor104}The
Ways of the Realm

The nations of Arcem dwell in a deepening gloom. For a thousand years
they and their ancestors have learned to live in the shadow of a fading
Heaven and the consequences of the slow decay of the celestial engines.
For centuries, they have built and endured with the wisdom they
inherited from their forebears and their own stern dedication, but that
may no longer be enough for the days to come. A bleak day is coming for
the realm, and it will soon have need for heroes.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor105}The
Peoples of the Realm

In the ages before the Shattering the proto-population of this fragment
of the world was largely divided between two groups, the Akeh and the
Din. Akeh nations controlled most of the continent's southwestern
reaches and northeastern coast, reaching from what now is Dulimbai up to
the northeastern horn of Ancalia. The Din peoples predominated in the
central regions and the northwest, in what's now the present-day Bright
Republic, Bleak Reach, Ulstang, Lom, Nezdohva, the Raktines, and the
Howler lands. All were divided into their own nations and cultures, most
of which were locked in vicious conflict at the time of the downfall.

The Ren peoples who arrived a few decades before the cataclysm were
strangers from a distant land but their vast fleet of invasion seized
most of the southern coast. They formed affiliated states in the Toba
plains and the Kasirutan islands and were pressing hard on the Patrian
Empire when the Shattering cut off their support from home. Since then
Ren families have spread throughout the continent, but only in the south
do they predominate.

The Din are pale-skinned, tending to light-colored hair and eyes, while
the Akeh have skin colors that range from cocoa to basalt-dark. Akeh
hair is usually tightly curled, and often worn close-cropped or in thick
braids. Ren skin colors range from old ivory to deep bronze, with
straight ebon hair and dark almond eyes. Of course, in the thousand
years since the Sundering, a great deal of admixture has occurred among
all these populations, and it is common for less traditional traits to
appear among a people. Some of these variances are the product of
ancient magic or non-human blood, giving their heirs some uncanny trait
or inhuman aspect to their appearance. Such strangeness is viewed with
some wariness by the common folk, and those marked by old magic are
sometimes blamed for new troubles.

These three groups are the largest ethnic blocks in the realm, but they
are not the only ones. Small pockets of other peoples persist in the
corners of the world, largely ignored or assimilated by their more
numerous neighbors. Some have been here since before the Shattering,
while others found their way here through the Night Roads or were the
product of some old cultural division or ethnic rebellion. Those groups
that have survived as distinct communities are usually clannish or
isolated; as those who favored greater assimilation have melted away
into the surrounding populations by now.

In the present day, these ancient racial origins mean little to most
people. Men and women identify with their communities and their nations,
usually in that order, and a stranger who happens to share the same skin
color is mistrusted far more than a neighbor who chances to have had
different ancestry. A few zealots or demagogues occasionally try to whip
up resentments or brandish old glories to win a following from the
discontented, but such things are rarely heard of in places not already
cursed with other troubles.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor106}Languages

Three ancient languages form the foundation of most modern tongues in
the realm: Old Din, Ancient Akeh, and Classical Ren. In the thousand
years since the Shattering, these root languages have splintered into
regional and national dialects or been mixed with each other into a
local argot.

Most nations have their own language, only minimally comprehensible to
speakers of related tongues. Over the centuries, a basic "trade cant"
has developed under the influence of Vissian traders and Kasirutan
seafarers, spreading throughout the realm. It's a simple language
focused largely on matters of trade and daily necessities.

The table below indicates the most common speakers of each of these
languages. The "Holy Speech" of the dwellers of the Thousand Gods is
unusual, as it is a polyglot language accreted from the many native
tongues of the original theotechnical engineers. More peculiar still is
the "Primordial" tongue of angels and theurgic magic, a "language"
impossible for ordinary mortals to speak. To convey an idea in the
Primordial tongue is to impart a concept to the listener, one impressed
with tremendous force and clarity. The language does not rely on spoken
words, but instead on the quintessential nature of the "speaker" and
their ability to convey manifest truths. Theurges use the concepts of
Primordial speech in their invocations, and Primordial glyphs are often
found engraved on angelic artifacts or the engines of Heaven. Extended
exposure to these glyphs can be dangerous to unprepared mortal minds.

Player characters are assumed to be conversant in trade cant and any
other languages appropriate to their Facts. A hero who led a life as a
Dulimbaian junzi would be expected to know Classical and Modern Ren, for
example, while one who was a Howler rider would know how to speak
Pelagic. Literacy is assumed unless there's a good reason the hero can't
read or write. Heroes can learn new languages as part of new Facts they
acquire or through a few months of study or living in a place where that
language is spoken. Those bound to the Knowledge sphere or the
impostures of Deception might pick them up in a matter of days, if not
sooner.

  ---------------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  Language                                                           Spoken By
  [Classical Ren]{.CharOverride-7}                                   Dulimbaian officials, scholars
                                     [Modern Ren]{.CharOverride-7}   Dulimbai, Toba Plains, slaves in Patria
                                     [Salt Ren]{.CharOverride-7}     Kasirutan Archipelago
  [Old Din]{.CharOverride-7}                                         Scholars and historians
                                     [Stangir]{.CharOverride-7}      Ulstang Skerries, Lom
                                     [Pelagic]{.CharOverride-7}      Bright Republic, Howlers
                                     [Yazik]{.CharOverride-7}        Nezdohva, Raktines
  [Ancient Akeh]{.CharOverride-7}                                    Scholars and historians
                                     [Patrian]{.CharOverride-7}      Patrian Empire, Vissio, slaves in Dulimbai
                                     [Kerez]{.CharOverride-7}        Ancalia and its ancient knightly orders
                                     [Menet]{.CharOverride-7}        Oasis States and the sand princes
  [Trade Cant]{.CharOverride-7}                                      Merchants, traders, wayfarers
  [Holy Speech]{.CharOverride-7}                                     Natives of the Thousand Gods
  [Primordial]{.CharOverride-7}                                      Angels and theurges
  ---------------------------------- ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor107}Climate

The realm's climate is the product of celestial engines as much as
common meteorology. Heavenly wheels of empyreal power drive the seasons
in their courses and send rain and drought as the old balances once
decreed. Most of the realm still maintains a predictable climate, but
there are still small pockets of land where the underlying engines have
failed or been destroyed, and these lands suffer from strange weather or
capricious seasons.

The far north of the realm is cold and snowy, particularly the Ulstang
islands and the northern coast of Lom. The Bleak Reach and ruined
Ancalia are a little warmer thanks to temperate sea currents, but even
there the weather lends itself to cold, snowy winters and temperate
summers. The rest of the continent down to its midpoint is cool
temperate in character, with four distinct seasons. The Red Desert of
the Oasis States is parched for lack of rain and rivers, however, and
suffers through broiling days and frigid nights. Only the sand princes
and the adepts of the Cinnabar Order know the secrets of surviving in
that cruel land outside the shelter of the pyramid-cities.

To the west of the desert are the Vissian city-states, warm and
temperate amid their rocky hills, and to the east is the rough land of
Nezdohva, where high mountain towns are ice-clad above the warm
lowlands. The Raktine Confederacy shares this climate, with brief, snowy
winters and icy elevations above forests blessed with long, warm
summers. South of the Raktines, in most of Patria and the southern
nations, the weather is hot. Snow is uncommon in Patria and unknown in
most of Dulimbai, and the steaming eastern jungles of the Thousand Gods
and the Kasirutan islands ensure that the locals have more care for
comfort than for modesty.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor108}Technology

The common technology available to the peoples of the realm is roughly
equivalent to late medieval Europe. Gunpowder, complex mechanisms,
delicate chemical reactions, or advanced metallurgy are possible only
through enchanted objects. Such artifacts are very difficult to make and
even more difficult to keep.

This technological stasis is not a product of a lack of curiosity or
dullness among the people of the realm. It is a consequence of the slow
decay of the celestial engines that maintain the realm's natural laws.
Complex devices and chemical compounds rely on dependable natural
processes and consistent natural laws. With the engines running down,
the laws of the natural world just don't support that degree of
precision any longer.

Enchanters and theurgists have come up with substitutes and replacements
for some forms of technology. The massive etheric nodes of the Bright
Republic sustain the natural laws of the island accurately enough to
power an entire culture's worth of high-tech devices and modern
technology, while the mechanists of Vissio embed magical reinforcements
in their intricate clockwork prosthetics. The Iron Tsar of Nezdohva
rules over an automaton nobility fashioned by expert human artificers,
and some of the tribes of the Thousand Gods still preserve advanced
technology through the auspices of their patron divinities. Complex
technology is not unknown in the realm.

It is, however, the province of the rich, the powerful, and the
fortunate. Even the wealthiest members of most societies never gain
access to such marvels, some because they lack the money, others because
they see no advantage that cannot be matched by a few dozen cheap human
servants. Those who would bring its power to the masses must labor long
to overcome both entropy and human indifference.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor109}Magic

Almost every culture of the realm has some native tradition of magic.
Even in the technological enclave of the Bright Republic, the
theotechnicians use their arts to maintain the etheric nodes. The
nations have their own attitudes toward sorcery and its practitioners,
but every peasant in the fields knows that wizards exist.

Few common folk ever encounter a true sorcerer. Only the most talented
village hedge-practitioners have any real magical power, and those men
and women who do have the natural gift for the art have better things to
do than make the locals gawp at their powers. Most prefer to remain
among their peers in magical academies or isolated cabals, or else
conduct their own research in the discreet privacy of a distant home.
Others sell their services to the wealthy and powerful, some for
influence, others for the gold that enables their research.

Magical artifacts are not unknown to commoners, but these artifacts are
very rarely "mundane" in their effects. The amount of effort required to
create even the smallest permanent enchantment discourages the creation
of trivial artifacts, and items that perform some mundane purpose are
considered a great waste of effort. Why spend a fortune making a mug
that chills beverages, when a hundredth part of the price would buy
enough mountain ice to chill ten wine cellars? Why fabricate a pump to
provide running water to a noble's palace when a tiny fraction of the
cost would buy the life's work of a dozen servants, any one of which
could do far more than pump water?

Instead, artifacts are created to be of practical use to those who
commissioned them. They do something impossible to mundane servants and
arts, and the effect is pronounced enough to be worth spending a rich
man's patrimony to have it.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor110}Trade

Even nations that have little love for each other conduct trade. Swarms
of merchants can be found on the roads and seas of the realm, their
pack-animals burdened by the wealth of far cities. The profession is a
swift path to riches for the fortunate, and a way to a roadside death
beneath bandit spears for the less lucky.

The Bright Republic is the industrial powerhouse of the realm. While the
island is poor in natural resources, it buys shiploads of metals,
foodstuffs, textile inputs, and other raw wares from the other nations
and uses its automated factories to transform them into finished goods.
Almost every nation in the realm trades with them.

Vissio is the financial and transport hub of the western realm. Its
merchants serve as neutral brokers between Patrian and Dulimbaian
traders, and finance the wars of other states. Those who cheat the
usurers of Vissio have an unfortunate habit of dying to a clockwork
blade soon thereafter, whether grasping merchant or improvident king.

The Kasirutans of the eastern realm move the goods on that side of the
continent, their numberless ships moving products from Nezdohva, the
eastern Raktines, the Toba plains, and southern Dulimbai. The recent
collapse of Ancalia has hit them hard, however, and many merchant
captains have been driven to find other, redder work for their crews.

The Oasis States of the central desert have a great difficulty in moving
their wares over the perilous sands. Most of their exports are drugs and
spices, compact enough to be moved by camels, while their imports are
the reagents and certain metal goods they cannot easily produce. The
thieving sand princes that infest the dunes grow rich on the plunder of
unwary caravans, and some say that the pyramid-cities are in danger of
being strangled by this pillaging.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor111}Wars
and Conflicts

The war between Patria and Dulimbai has smoldered for a thousand years
of lulls and fresh campaigns. The initial Dulimbaian landing shortly
before the Shattering drove the Patrians back from the southern shores
and left much of their old empire under the rule of the Regent. Their
advance was halted by the Patrian legions in the rugged hills west of
Lake Nemia and in the fortified northern gap between the lakeshore and
the Raktine forest. Efforts at amphibious strikes across the
beast-infested lake proved a failure, and ever since the two powers have
been spilling blood along the old line.

Over the centuries, the bloodshed has become more a tool of political
advancement in Dulimbai than a serious attempt at expansion. Ambitious
generals lead the levies north to some colorable victory, shedding blood
until their name has gotten an adequate luster. The Patrians are fewer
than their southern enemies and not so rich, but their hard-bitten
martial traditions and expertise in fortification has kept the Ren
invaders away from their remaining provinces.

Currently, the two powers are gearing up for another clash. Rival agents
are working in Vissio to bring the merchant-princes in line with their
patrons' causes, while Dulimbaian ambassadors to the Tobans and the
Kasirutans offer rich rewards to those nations for the help of their
riders and ships. Some believe that the Regent has decided to end this
old struggle before the strange new Godbound can destabilize the old
calculus. The Patrians show no fear, but whispers speak of the emperor's
concern and the extreme measures he contemplates for the defense of his
people.

In the north, the people of Lom fight a sluggish war against the pale
raiders from the Ulstang skerries. The witch-warriors and their dead
crews come down from the cold northern islands every year to reave the
northern coast of Lom and tear at the wreckage that remains of Ancalia.
The atheocrats strike back every so often in bloody reprisals, but the
Voice of Reason has many concerns to distract him, whether the rampaging
Uncreated out of Ancalia to the east, the Howler tribesmen to the
southwest, or the occasional depredations of sand prince raiders from
the Oasis States. The strength of the cold witch-queens in their island
fastnesses is too great for Lom to dig them out without prohibitive
losses.

Ancalia writhes under the plague of Uncreated monsters that swept over
it five years ago. There is no nation left there to speak of, just a
scattering of enclaves and coastal strongholds where men and women can
eke out a life within sight of strong walls. Its survivors have learned
to fear incursions from the skerries, Lom, and Nezdohva to the south, as
these intruders only come to plunder dead cities and pick the bones of
this once-proud land. The foreigners have learned to come in small bands
after the first full battalions attracted such a swarm of husks that
even their great numbers couldn't save them.

Ancalia formerly had relatively good relations with Nezdohva and icily
polite ones with Lom, but their neighbors blame the Ancalians for the
disaster that overwhelmed their nation. Outsiders are convinced that the
Ancalians were doing [something]{.CharOverride-2} disastrous with magic
to result in such a massive plague of Night Roads, and they dread that
whatever the Ancalians were doing might be contagious to their own
lands. Ancalian refugees are not loved elsewhere, and there have been
pogroms in frightened border villages.

South of Ancalia, Nezdohva still seethes over the secession of the
Raktine lords. The Iron Tsar dreams of sending his autocossacks to bring
the fractious boyars back in line, but his mechanical nobility is too
untrustworthy to bring them together into a single mighty force. Even if
the tsar could bring the nobles under his hand, the Raktine sorcerers of
the Black Academies would be a bone to stick in his bronze throat. For
now, he pays spies in Raktia and finances pliant boyars, working toward
a revolution from within.

The Raktine Confederacy is constantly half at war with itself.
Individual lords are ferociously proud of their independence, and there
is not the meanest knyaz in his tumbledown forest manor who does not
consider himself a peer of the mightiest voivode of Raktia. The lords
fight each other for honor, land, and sheer bloody-mindedness, and the
peasants are ground underfoot by their struggles. The only power that
all the lords fear is that of the Black Academies in the mountains,
where powerful theurges and mighty sorcerers dwell. These academies
fight each other in turn, either openly or through tacit rivalries, each
seeking to take control of the others and steal their arcane power for
their own use. The pious Uniter priests of Raktia deplore the excesses
of these wizards, but everyone knows that if the Academies were
overthrown, Patria and Dulimbai would have their armies in the next day.
Only the might of the sorcerers keeps the many hostile neighbors of
Raktia from devouring them all.

In the Bright Republic, the public revels in its peace and prosperity,
all fueled by the etheric energy nodes that have powered their
civilization for a thousand years. The nodes are slowly beginning to
fail, however, and the government is quietly desperate for a solution.
As part of this effort, the Special Resources Department has been set up
as a clearinghouse for special agents that can be hired by corporations,
other government departments, or connected private individuals to carry
out work "in the national interest". These governmentally-approved
mercenaries go by code names, and have recently come to include some of
the first Godbound to manifest in Arcem. Along with other remarkable
figures of magical or physical prowess, they're treated much like
superheroes by the Republic's entertainment industry, with comics,
movies, and other properties dedicated to their exploits.

Most of these agents are also so deeply entangled with top-secret
Republic departmental machinations that they need government patrons
just to stay out of prison. For decades, the SRD has been used to this
state of affairs, keeping their agents on a short leash with money,
special privileges, and the threat of prison. They have yet to realize
the qualitative difference in dealing with Godbound, and are much too
confident that their old methods will work with this new variety of
supernatural agent. Still less do they realize that the fan followings
these Godbound develop can end up functioning like an actual cult.

To the southeast, the nomads of the Toba plains are forever dealing with
the incursions of monsters and raiders from the Thousand Gods. The
hundreds of minor pseudo-deities that the ancient theotechnicians
created still plague their neighbors, each one striving to increase
their tribal cult and cull the worshipers of rival divinities. These
conflicts range from sudden skirmishes between hunters in the deep
jungle to full-scale divine workings and assaults by celestially-powered
godwalker engines.

Beyond these major conflicts in Arcem, there are innumerable small
border wars, internal insurrections, natural disasters, religious feuds,
and trade wars going on at any one time. Wherever the PCs care to look
closely, they'll find some trouble to encourage their involvement.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer099 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor112}Religion

Religion in Arcem is a chaotic thing at best. The nightmare of the Last
War, the Shattering, and the death of the Made Gods left theological
wreckage in its wake. Some people came to reject conventional religion
entirely, such as the ascetics of the Empty Way or the militant atheists
of Lom, but most people felt the need for some kind of spiritual
consolation and guidance even if their old divinities had proven so very
fallible. Just as importantly, many people dreaded the Hell that awaited
them should they die without spiritual protection, and priests were
begged for some salvation from that awful fate.

The result was a hodge-podge of theological detritus. Made Gods who were
not provably dead were enshrined as salvific beings, generalized
philosophical paths were offered as tools for liberation, and humble
spirits of land and place were exalted as protectors of the faithful.
Ancestors secure in celestial repose were petitioned to protect and save
their progeny and their beloved homelands. In a more sinister turn even
appeals to dark angelic powers were made, reasoning that the jailers of
Hell might be appeased with service rather than souls.

Some of these religions actually work, in the sense that they provide
miracles to the faithful and keep those buried with their rites from
descending into Hell. Far more work in the sense that they provide
solace and moral meaning to their believers and clearly map out a set of
social obligations that lead to a functioning society. Others are less
functional, teaching their adherents a way that can only lead to
bloodshed, loss, and ruin.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor113}The
Church of the One

The most common faith in the realm is the Church of the One. Its
believers are known as Uniters and their faith the Unitary Church. The
Church remains dedicated to revering the absent Creator and adhering to
the sacred books of their prophets and saints. It is organized by
nation, each country's church under the oversight of a patriarch or
matriarch, under which are bishops for each episcopacy and priests for
serving individual churches within a bishop's see. Ascetic monks and
nuns can be found in monasteries and nunneries, seeking service to the
One through prayer and private labor, though some go out into the world
to provide hospices and preaching. In theory, the united patriarchal
council may nominate a Great Father or Great Mother to command the
entire church in a time of dire need, but this has not happened for
centuries.

The Church of the One in each nation supports itself on the tithes of
the faithful, the profits of the land they lease out to farmers, and the
burial-fees they charge to believers. Custom has set the price of burial
rites at a tenth of the deceased's worldly wealth, with children and
other minors charged at a twentieth of their parents' possessions, or a
much smaller fee for infants who die before their second birthday. Those
who pay accordingly are given prayers and rituals to assure their
dreamless repose and safety from the torments of Hell. The Church
teaches that when the One returns, the righteous dead will be redeemed
into paradise, while the wicked will be left to burn forever in Hell.

The moral teachings of the Church are firm in the larger points, but
vary from nation to nation. Murder, theft, sexual impurity, violence
against the innocent, indulgence of cruelty or greed, and rebellion
against lawful authority are almost always condemned. Other beliefs tend
to conform to the habits of the nation; the Patrian Church is entirely
in favor of slavery as a means of spiritual refinement, and even has a
caste of slave priests, while the Bright Republic's Church condemns it
as barbaric and inhumane. Conversely, the faithful of the Bright
Republic are notably less interested in preaching the sharing of goods
and shunning of greed than the clergy of impoverished Raktia.

Adultery is universally considered a serious sin, though Patrian Uniters
question whether slave concubines fall under that prohibition. Sex
outside of wedlock is also deplored, albeit not so severely. Doctrine on
homosexuality and homosexual marriage varies by nation, with the Bright
Republic accepting it without concern, Nezdohva and Raktia categorically
rejecting it, and the Patrians and Vissians accepting homosexual
relationships but denying them formal marriage rights.

The Church of the One is dominant in the Patrian Empire, the Bright
Republic, Vissio, Nezdohva, and what was once Ancalia. It has smaller,
weaker branches in all the other nations save for the Atheocracy of Lom,
the Thousand Gods, and the Ulstang Skerries. Attempts to send missionary
priests and devout monks to those lands have ended in bloody failure,
though rumors persist of secret cells of Uniters working among the
common people.

The priests of the Church rarely have magical powers, but certain
cathedrals, churches, and shrines are constructed on places of great
spiritual significance, where properly-trained priests can evoke
miracles to bless pilgrims and petitioners. Notably, the One remains
decidedly silent to the Uniters. There are no true sorceries that can
evoke the One or discern the divine will, though charlatans and false
prophets are sometimes known to fake a divine visitation.

Player character priests of the One belong to a particular national
church and are theoretically subject to the authority of their bishop,
and above them their patriarch or matriarch. Some nations only allow
clergy of a particular sex, though most allow both men and women.
Celibacy is the norm for clergy, albeit Raktia and Nezdohva allow
priests to wed, though not monks, nuns, or higher ranks of clergy.
Priests are usually attached to particular churches, though some are
sent forth by their bishop to preach the truth of the One, the Creator's
eventual return, and the graces of the sacred scriptures. Others are
charged with grimmer work, holy priest-knights and inquisitors sent to
root out monsters and spiritual evils from a community. Such itinerant
clergy have a great deal of independence, though their authority is
limited to whatever the Church grants them and the local government
allows.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor114}Ancestor
Cults

Prominent in Dulimbai, Kasiruta, the Toba lands, and other Ren
societies, ancestor cults appeal to the honored dead to protect their
heirs and uphold their nations. Through offerings and remembrances the
living can ensure that their beloved ancestors remain secure in the
spirit world and capable of bestowing blessings upon their children.
Ceremonial offerings of food, incense, and spiritually-charged writing
give the ancestors they strength they need to avoid Hell and grant their
favor.

The ancestors expect their offspring to behave in an appropriate way.
Appropriateness varies from nation to nation, but in most cases this
involves filial obedience, fulfilling one's social duty, keeping one's
word, avoiding needless violence, cruelty, or self-indulgence, and a
rigorous sense of responsibility to the good of the community that
nurtures them. An act is shameful if it harms the community, or worse
still one's own family, even if it might not be a strictly improper act
in of itself. Those who disgrace themselves too greatly risk their souls
being rejected by their ancestors and consigned to the flames of Hell.

Ancestor worship is a very private affair. Temples exist in a community,
but chiefly to honor the ancestors of the community as a whole or revere
the memory of particularly glorious native sons and daughters. Each
family takes responsibility for honoring its own private dead, and so
the continuance of the family is of utmost importance. The ancestors of
a branch that is wiped out are reliant upon the prayers and offerings of
the community at large and those monasteries staffed by pious and
altruistic souls who pray and sacrifice for the bereft.

Professional priests of this tradition may be either male or female, and
are viewed more as spiritual technicians than moral exemplars. Their
duties are to record the dead of their patrons, provide rituals and
prayers more elaborate than a non-specialist can provide, and to draw
down specific blessings or alleviate particular curses from the
ancestors. Most have no true magical powers, but some study the occult
arts in order to provide additional services to petitioners. Monks in
particular are famed for their remarkable abilities, some more real than
others. Temples have hierarchies, as do monasteries, but there is no
overarching organization.

A few splinter sects are not content to revere the dead in spiritual
form. These sectarians engage in various forms of necromancy to embody
worthy ancestors in permanent form, the better to receive their guidance
and their aid. Some of these sects are relatively harmless aside from
their necromantic enthusiasm, but others are tainted by dark forces, and
call up dire revenants who wield the powers of the grave against their
enemies.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor115}The
Doctrine of True Reason

The grim men and women of Lom are the only full nation of atheocrats,
though numerous smaller cells exist throughout the realm. Lom itself was
founded by refugees and survivors from the nightmarish techno-theocracy
that once ruled the Bleak Reach, and in bitterness they forever after
forswore all the gods. In the centuries since, the Atheocrat of True
Reason has ruled in that cold land, sending forth antipriests as
missionaries to the south. Those converts they win are often from among
those scourged by parasite gods and other divine plagues, people
embittered against divinity and seeking protection.

The exact doctrines of the atheocratic faith have changed over the
centuries to suit the winners of assorted intellectual and martial
disputes. At present, "True Reason" is enshrined as the ultimate ideal
of the atheocrats, with the Atheocrat himself enshrined as the "Voice of
Reason". A complete plan of virtue and societal organization can be
developed from first principles, according to this belief, and it is the
duty of the atheocrats to bring this wisdom to the god-raddled world.

True Reason, however, seems to logically point toward the command of
society by the intelligent and rational, a description that most
perfectly fits the antipriests themselves. Antipriests vie with one
another in seeking deviations from the right path; the more subtle the
error discovered, the more keenly insightful the discoverer, and thus
more worthy to rule. Failures or suffering in atheocrat communities are
blamed on heretics or the presence of the Irrational, those god-enslaved
wretches who fail to accept the light of True Reason.

Atheocrats flatly deny the power of Hell over their adherents. While
this in no way protects their souls from damnation, the angels of Hell
are known for favoring atheocracy as a useful tool against the divine,
and make a point of ostensibly supporting these claims even as they
cruelly torment the souls of the dead believers.

The current doctrine of True Reason would be precarious were it not for
the Pyre, a mighty celestial artifact seized by the Atheocracy several
hundred years ago. Carefully-prepared antipriests are permitted to enter
the Pyre. Most who emerge have their minds scorched of intellect,
becoming little more than shambling, child-like souls scarcely capable
of speech. All who survive, however, gain access to the ineffable gifts
of the Stiflers, powers that can suppress even a godbound's miracles.
The "simple" use these powers on command, conditioned to them by cruel
training and ruthless handlers. Those who retain their intellects become
the elite of the atheocracy, the "antiprelates" that serve the Atheocrat
himself.

The moral doctrine of True Reason is infinitely mutable. Lay reasoners
are taught to obey the antipriests implicitly; all that is obedient is
good, and all that is defiant is evil. Antipriests are bade to search
out true happiness and abundance by any means necessary, even if the
methods should seem horrific to less enlightened minds. Conventional
social and sexual morality is useful only insofar as it keeps the lay
reasoners docile before their betters.

Aside from the current dominant faction, a small number of antipriest
reformers desperately seek the correction and purification of their
philosophy into something more humane and temperate. These reformers
risk a lingering death should their disloyalty to the Voice of Reason be
discovered.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor116}Lesser
Faiths

A swarm of minor creeds can be found in the cities and villages of the
realm, most of them revolving around a locally-important spirit or
heroic ancestor. Few of these faiths have any real power to save, though
a few have priests that actually can ensure a peaceful eternal rest to
their followers. Sometimes this safety can be granted with a simple
ritual or sequence of prayers, but other faiths require expensive or
bloody rites to ensure that a soul is safely anchored to the sleep of
the mundane realm. Occasionally these rites go awry, and the soul is
left to persist as some form of undead. Less often, these rites are
[intended]{.CharOverride-2} to create such revenants, either to serve
the cult or to act as loci for their devout worship. Few undead find
their state comfortable.

More dangerous are the cults to parasite gods, the wretched products of
the malfunctioning of a celestial engine. These entities are created
when divine force is no longer being channeled correctly through a realm
and is left to pool within some random living creature. The experience
is addictive to the victim, and grants them both tremendous power and an
unquenchable thirst for more. Were parasite gods not geographically
limited to the area the failing engine serves, they'd be a much greater
threat to their neighbors. As it is, their raids, exactions, and
ruthless command of their unlucky cultist-slaves make them a problem
most nations prefer to work around.

A few cults are the direct product of angelic manipulation, ones that
guide their believers to adore some fictional deity or human figurehead.
Of course, these faiths have no power to save, and so the more humans
that pledge their devotion to a nonexistent power, the more of them are
sure to end up trapped in Hell's flames. Angels have difficult reaching
the realms, however, and the more powerful ones can find it physically
impossible to compact their tremendous might into the narrow spaces of
the mundane world. Angelic tempters thus tend to come from the lesser
ranks of angels, albeit ones that know well the thousand snares that can
catch a restless human heart.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer100 .Text-Frame}
[[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor117}A
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor118}Player's
Guide to the Realm ]{.CharOverride-10}

Ancalia

Five years ago Ancalia's peaceful, civilized monarchy was shattered by a
massive outbreak of Night Roads opening throughout the country,
disgorging waves of abominations and raising those killed by the
Hollowing Plague. The survivors huddle in coastal redoubts and inland
enclaves, aided by the ragged remnants of Ancalia's famed knightly
orders.

Atheocracy of Lom

The Voice of Reason rules this chill and cheerless land with the aid of
his antipriest acolytes. The people are but pawns to their master's
theories and schemes, yet they fear to pray to the gods that so utterly
abandoned them in the past.

The Bleak Reach

A thousand years ago this was an advanced and powerful nation. Now the
land is cursed, a refuge for exiles and those no other land can
tolerate. Reacher folk are hard, canny, and ruthless in their will to
survive.

[The Bright Republic]{.CharOverride-11}

The sole technologically-advanced nation remaining in the realm, the
Republic relies on its irreplaceable etheric nodes to power a
sophisticated society of modern technology and political intrigue.

The Howlers

Savage raiders, peerless poets and famed beast-tamers, the Howlers shun
writing of all kinds as a curse that destroyed their ancient nation.

The Kasirutan

Archipelago

The finest sailors in the realm call these volcanic isles home, though
they're feared more for their pirating than for their ruthless
mercantile dealings.

Nezdohva

The mechanical Iron Tsar and his automaton nobility rule this land of
impoverished human serfs. Their human Artificer's Guild has the best
automaton-builders in the realm, and a liberty born of the tsar's
dependence on their arts. His patronage of their talents is all that
keeps his fractious, ambitious mechanical boyars and autocossacks in
line.

The Oasis States

Pyramidal city-arcologies rise amid the red sands, a wealth of spices
and drugs grown within their hydroponic gardens. An inbred nobility
cultivates their bloodlines for physical and magical power, while
outside their walls the "sand prince" raiders pillage spice caravans and
foreign goods.

The Patrian Empire

The Patrian legions are the best heavy infantry in the world, their
armored ranks and steely assegais a bulwark against their ancient rivals
in Dulimbai to the south. Their senatorial families scheme for influence
over the plebian classes, while swarms of bitter slaves toil in their
mines and finely-built homes.

The Raktine Confederacy

This patchwork of city-states, demesnes, and free towns was once a
battleground divided between Patria and Dulimbai. In desperation, the
sorcerers of Raktia unsealed the forbidden Black Academies in the
mountains and used their secrets to conjure beasts to drive out the
invaders. It came at a price; even today, Raktia is plagued with
monsters.

The Regency

of Dulimbai

Greatest of the nations of the south, Dulimbai's mandarins came as an
invading force a thousand years ago. Their Regent still pledges loyalty
to a long-lost emperor, and their magistrates keep to old ways.

[The Thousand Gods]{.CharOverride-12}

Once this steaming jungle was a favorite site for theotechnical research
by the other nations of the realm. Now the descendants of those
arcanists are tribes of god-enslaved cultists ruled by artificial
divinities of cruel and capricious nature.

The Toba Plains

Nomadic clans of herdsmen ride the broad plains, congregating around the
massive stone monasteries of their revered lamas. These monks are proud
and wealthy, and their disputes often leave the nomad clans divided and
troubled.

The Ulstang

Skerries

These icy islands lie under the cold hand of quarreling witch-queens,
who send their sea raiders faring forth with dead men at the oars. Their
warriors are mighty and pitiless, dreaded all along the northern coasts.
Their robbery is bad enough, but all know that the corpses of the
hapless souls they slay are taken north to be slaves... or worse.

Vissio

Home to the richest financiers and most ambitious artists in the realm,
Vissio is a proud land of rival city-states and scheming patrician
families whose deep rivers and seaports see most of the trade of the
western realm. Their clockwork artificers are superb, and work many
marvels for the merchant-princes and the assassins of the Order of
Redactors.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer101 .Single-Column}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor119}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor120}Running
the World

Managing Adventures, Changes, and Factions
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer102 .Text-Frame}
Running a game of [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is both easier and more
difficult than running a session of a more traditional RPG. Conventional
fantasy adventure games tend to focus around the exploits of a very
human set of player characters. They might have magical powers or the
strength of ten men, but they're operating in the same basic context as
other human beings. Many games start their heroes as extremely mortal
men and women, people who need to struggle to overcome even very minimal
opposition.

[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} starts its PCs as outright demigods. With
most minor opposition, the question is not whether the PCs
[can]{.CharOverride-2} brush it aside, but whether they
[should]{.CharOverride-2}. Problems and obstacles that would stymie an
ordinary band of adventurers are effortlessly dispatched by the
pantheon, and it can leave a GM familiar with more conventional games
groping for some way to challenge these titans that walk the earth. This
chapter will arm a GM with the tools they need to give these divinities
a worthy evening's play.

The Key Differences

Before handling the tools and mechanics in this section, it's important
that a GM understand a few of the most important differences between
running [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} and a session of a traditional RPG.

[Things happen faster.]{.CharOverride-3} The arc of activities that
might eat up half a gaming session can be dispatched in minutes by the
use of a Godbound's abilities. A painstaking heist that might require an
hour to play out for mortal thieves can be dispatched in a few sentences
by a Godbound graced by Deception and Night. A situation that the GM
confidently expected would entangle the pantheon for hours can be blown
away in a moment as the players come up with some unexpected but
plausible use of their divine Words. Difficulties get compressed
drastically when PCs have so much strength.

Coping with this difference requires that the GM keep a light hand on
the session. They can't afford to overbuild a situation, detailing it on
the assumption that the PCs are going to be spending hours trying to
resolve it. They also can't afford to overcomplicate things at the
table, constantly throwing obstacles in front of the pantheon just to
try to slow them down a little. Obstacles and situations should be as
detailed and difficult as they rationally should be in the setting, and
if the players can blow through them, then that's perfectly acceptable.
So long as the GM has a sheaf of generic challenges prepped beforehand,
a fresh one can be dropped in as the players' goals require it.

[Things change rapidly. ]{.CharOverride-3}Even novice Godbound have the
power to enact major changes in the campaign setting, from completely
rewriting the society and economy of a local market town to the deposing
of minor royalty. Nothing about a GM's setting is secure when a pantheon
of PCs are involved; if there's a situation that annoys them enough,
they're likely to do something about it, whether that situation is
poverty in their home village or an imperial theocrat with a silly
haircut. In the best Greek fashion, PCs are divinities who can take
offense at almost anything.

This is a [good thing]{.CharOverride-2}. Their ambitions, their desires
for change, and the obstacles to those goals can all provide a GM with
easy grist for an evening's play. The players practically write the
adventures for the GM, laying out their plans and just relying on the
referee to populate the situation with logical challenges and
interesting difficulties. A GM shouldn't worry about protecting their
campaign world, they should focus on getting the most interesting play
out of its transformation.

[The scale is larger. ]{.CharOverride-3}Godbound do big things. Novices
might be content with cleaning up their home province or a particular
city, but more powerful heroes rapidly rise to challenge rival
divinities, storm the halls of fallen Heaven, reave Hell of its stolen
souls, and struggle against the mightiest nations and powers of their
realm. If the pantheon takes a disliking to a king, it's the king who
ought to start sweating.

The GM should not fight this scale. Habit and customary expectations
might have them expecting the PCs to deal with much smaller problems or
foes. If the PCs want to aim higher, however, then the GM should let
them; indeed, they may have to encourage the players to do so if they're
too accustomed to the smaller scope of other games.

In this chapter you'll find a set of guidelines and tools for dealing
with these particular differences and managing a smooth evening's
gaming. Some of these tools might feel a little strange in the hands of
a GM accustomed to more traditionally-scaled games, but they're designed
to give a reader the techniques they need for coping with the speed,
scale, and variability of a game full of demigods. A careful reading
will reward the GM with what they need for fun.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker326}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor121}Changing
the World

Godbound are proto-divinities, and such men and women are naturally
going to have a dramatic effect on the world around them. Their goals,
ambitions, hates, and loves will leave marks on the realm, and there are
several ways these changes can come to pass. A GM needs to be
properly-equipped to handle these kind of grand schemes and sweeping
alterations, as divine god-heroes are unlikely to leave their campaign
world unmarked by their passage.

The Tools of Rule

Heroes have three main resources for enacting changes in the world
around them. The first is that of their natural gifts and the Words of
Creation they've bonded. Their gifts and miracles are convenient for
making direct, immediate changes that require little management.

Heroes also have
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker327}[Influence]{.CharOverride-3},
abstract points representing the force of their full attention and
regular management of a situation. Like Effort, Influence is only ever
committed, not expended. A hero has Influence equal to one plus their
character level, possibly a few points more depending on the special
gifts they may have mastered. A player uses Influence when they want to
represent their hero's regular tending of a situation and their
"off-screen" use of gifts and miracles.

Heroes also have
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker328}[Dominion]{.CharOverride-3}
points. These points are used to represent their divine mandate and
their instinctive ability to mold the world around them to fit their
will. Unlike Influence, Dominion is lost when expended, but can be used
to change situations and local circumstances in miraculous ways,
alterations that last until some other power comes along to knock them
down. Heroes start with no Dominion, but gain it for performing mighty
deeds and through the worship of their cults.

The Nature of Facts

Heroes use their gifts, Influence, and Dominion to change
[facts]{.CharOverride-3}. Facts are exactly as labeled; they're the
basic truths about a place or situation in the game world. Some might be
called out specifically in the description of an area, but most facts
are just implicit in the setting or circumstances. A poor Raktian
farming village is going to have different facts than a prosperous
industrial town in the Bright Republic, but most of these facts will
only arise when it becomes relevant. The Raktian village is going to be
cruelly taxed by its lord, and the Bright Republic town is going to have
electricity and modern plumbing, but the GM won't be going through their
notes to write down every possible fact about both places before the
game. The great majority of them will just be assumed or implicit.

Heroes who seek to affect the world will try to change these facts.
[How]{.CharOverride-2} they do so matters, but the ultimate goal of
their efforts is to change a place or situation. Perhaps they want to
extinguish slavery in a nation, or bring prosperity to a village, or
establish a fortress against an invading horde, or depose a corrupt
lord. Any large-scale attempt to build, destroy or alter the realities
of a locale can be treated as changing a fact.

Some facts are harder to change than others, and some facts might not be
possible to change at all without some heroic deed or perilous
adventure. Simple alterations that aren't opposed by any major powers
can be accomplished with little more than gifts or Influence, but heroes
who would defy kings, brace divinities and bend the laws of nature are
going to have to work harder than that.

Ways of Changing Things

The simplest way for a Godbound to make a change in the game world is to
just do it. If a Godbound has the necessary gifts to raise a comfortable
manor house over the course of a few hours of work, then they can make a
manor house whenever they have a spare afternoon. If they have the power
to control the minds of men and delicately adjust the village mayor's
attitude toward their suggestions, then the mayor will give whatever
orders they want him to give. It is not necessary to bring in any more
complication than that, and many changes can be settled just with the
use of a gift or miracle. These changes cost nothing in Influence or
Dominion as they are direct, immediate acts.

Sometimes, however, the change that the hero wants to make is too
far-reaching for the simple exercise of gifts, or too complicated to be
managed with a simple miracle. A city's lord might be as susceptible to
the powers of command as a village mayor, but the substantial body of
officials and courtiers around him may prove more complicated to direct,
particularly if they suspect their lord is being ensorceled. The
Godbound can then exert their powers over the courtiers, of course, but
it eventually comes to a point where the hero would have to spend a
significant amount of his or her free time just to keep their plans in
motion. It's up to the GM to determine when a task is too complicated
for the simple use of a gift or miracle.

Exerting this sort of abstracted effort is represented by the use of
Influence. The amount of Influence the hero and their allies must expend
depends on how improbable or difficult the task is, from one point to
make a plausible change in a village, to more than sixty to enact a
realm-wide reality that is otherwise impossible. Provided the hero can
explain how their Words and skills can attain their end, they and their
friends usually don't need to do more than commit the Influence and work
for a reasonable amount of time to enact the change. Assuming no outside
forces are opposing them and no major challenge needs to be first
overcome, the change will simply happen.

This Influence needs to [stay]{.CharOverride-2} committed, however, or
else the natural pressures and complications of the situation will soon
erode away whatever alteration they made. New industries might fall
apart under outside pressure or lack of direction, while obedient
governments might turn rebellious as unfettered new officials rise in
power. This decay usually takes a while, but it's almost inevitable once
the Influence is withdrawn.

For situations where the hero wishes to make lasting changes that
persist without their personal oversight, Dominion must be spent. The
hero performs this exertion much as they would expend Influence. They
use their gifts and miracles and natural talents to bring out the
desired end, but the Dominion makes it permanent. It subtly alters the
outlines of the situation and changes the flow of fate so that the
alterations that the Godbound makes are persistent, and will continue
until some grave disaster or fierce outside force overthrows it.

With Influence or Dominion, true marvels can be created that would
otherwise be impossible. Fabulous palaces of luxurious modern
conveniences can be raised next door to mud-walled village huts, and
springs of molten gold can be coaxed from barren rock. Harmonious
workshops of fabulous productivity or iron soldiers that march and fight
as real warriors can all be conjured forth by heroes with applicable
Words. For truly great wonders and dramatic changes, however, equally
great deeds must also often be performed as well.

Changing Facts with Gifts and Actions

Some changes the PCs want to accomplish can be performed
instantaneously, just by exerting their gifts. If a Godbound of Health
comes across a disease-stricken village, one tremendous burst of his
[Ender of Plagues]{.CharOverride-3} gift is enough to change that fact.
Unless there\'s some outside source of the sickness that will refresh
the suffering, that single action is enough to make a lasting result.

In the same vein, a Godbound of Earth who wants to raise a fortified
keep with her [Builder of Mountain Peaks]{.CharOverride-3} gift can
simply do so, spending a few hours conjuring up the walls and sculpting
the interiors to suit her preference. She may not have much in the way
of soldiers to man the keep\'s walls, but she can certainly fabricate
the structure itself without any additional effort.

These instant changes are usually enough to alter a situation in the
PC\'s favor, but they\'re usually not well-equipped to make lasting or
complex alterations. The Godbound of Health could instantly purge a
village of sickness, for example, but that moment\'s purification won\'t
stop the stream of diseased refugees from the surrounding plague-raddled
communities. Without a longer-term solution, the village will likely
fall back into sickness before too long. In a like fashion, that
powerful stone fortress the Godbound of Earth raised might be a valuable
fortification to help the locals withstand a bandit attack, but
neighboring rulers are going to be very uncomfortable with its existence
until their own men are in control of it.

In many situations, however, an immediate change or fix is all the
players need. If a community is starving, a Fertility blessing can get
them enough food to make it through to spring. Perhaps they\'ll have
more trouble then, but the PCs have other things to worry about, and an
immediate patch is good enough for the moment. A haughty duke\'s
cooperation in a matter can be coerced with a word of Command, and
provided the PCs are done with the affair before his courtiers realize
their lord has been mind-bent, any unfortunate consequences can be
dodged.

And, of course, the heroes can simply achieve any of these ends the
old-fashioned way. Rather than forcing the duke to obey their will, they
can honestly persuade him with favors or threats, or engage in court
intrigue to have a more pliant heir put in his place. They can cut deals
with neighboring rulers to leave the fortress to the villagers, and
build protective quarantines around their newly-cured villages. Changes
can always be accomplished by the usual ways in which heroes and people
get things done.

Changing Facts with Influence

Influence abstracts a PC\'s attention and off-screen labor to accomplish
a more complicated, enduring change. These changes last as long as the
PC is still around often enough to maintain their handiwork; once the
hero leaves town permanently, the natural forces of entropy and social
inertia will take hold.

The plague-raddled village mentioned earlier could be kept permanently
free of sickness by the Godbound of Health, if he stuck around to
cleanse it every so often and fix the inevitable pilgrims who\'d seek
his divine mercy there. Doing so would involve committing Influence to
the situation, allotting some of his limited free time and attention
toward the maintenance of the village\'s health.

The Godbound of Earth who wanted to make sure the fortress they raised
was only used by the villagers could likewise commit Influence, making
it clear to aspiring conquerors that the village and
[only]{.CharOverride-2} the village would be permitted to use the
fortress, or else it would rapidly cease to be a fortress and become an
extremely elaborate tomb. Watching over the situation and keeping things
working the way she wished would require some amount of her attention,
but would keep affairs stable.

Coercing the duke\'s lasting friendship would likewise require an
Influence commitment, not only to keep the duke pliant, but to manage
his heir, his courtiers, and his functionaries, all of whom might rebel
if they think the duke is acting unreasonably. Judicious use of further
mind-bending powers, reasonable suasions, and careful bribes all take up
the Godbound\'s time and focus, and if they stop committing Influence to
it the situation is liable to degenerate.

In general, keeping Influence committed to a situation keeps the
Godbound in control of it. Bad things might happen to it, but it will be
because someone else is acting against them, not because the situation
is naturally degenerating. The Godbound is spending their off-screen
time taking care of business, and they\'re going to get basically the
results they expect to get out of it.

When the Godbound withdraws Influence, however, the forces of human
nature and natural events will take over. For small changes or
unobtrusive alterations, this might not mean anything. If the Influence
was used to get the duke to cooperate in a mutually-advantageous pact
with a neighboring city-state, then the newly-liberated duke might not
even realize he was controlled, and credit his own wise foresight for
the excellent results. If the Influence was used to get the duke to
abdicate in favor of his puppet heir, on the other hand, things are
liable to get bloody in a hurry.

Social changes and human institutions are particularly vulnerable to
crumbling when Influence is taken away. New schools, enlightened laws,
magical manufactories, and other complex human activities almost always
collapse soon after their divine patron moves on. In some cases it\'s
because the mortals just don\'t know how to maintain things, while in
other cases the weight of societal inertia or the greed and ambition of
its members will tear the institution apart without a divine hero to
keep things in check.

Changing Facts with Dominion

Dominion is the most powerful means of altering a fact, and represents a
Godbound\'s direct mastery of their Words of Creation. Utterly
impossible changes and wholly magical alterations can be performed by
spending Dominion and invoking a suitable Word, though the most drastic
changes will require some heroic deed to be accomplished to clear the
way for the new fact.

A Godbound of Health who wanted to maintain a village\'s health in
perpetuity could spend Dominon to banish sickness entirely from the
boundary of the village forever after. The locals would simply never
grow sick again. Optionally, he might share his powers in a limited way
with chosen acolytes among the villagers, granting them the ability to
cure any sickness and accomplishing the same general effect in a
different way.

The more drastic, expansive, and impossible a change that Dominion
makes, the more costly it is to enact. The opposition of other
supernatural forces in the area can hinder these changes, as can the
presence of mundus wards in the area to be affected. If these limits are
overcome and a sufficient amount of Dominion is expended, almost any
change can be wrought on a group of mortals or a piece of terrain.

Dominion expenditures take time, and generally aren\'t fast enough to be
useful whenever time is an issue. Dominion expenditure can\'t imbue an
army with permanent water-breathing abilities when it\'s suddenly
crucial they pass a strait, but given a few weeks of divine manipulation
and a sufficient amount of Dominion, the change can be worked. Most
Dominion changes take no more than a month to accomplish, and that only
for the more complex and involved alterations.

Once a Dominion change is enacted, it remains until some power destroys
it. If this involves Dominion expenditure, then the opposition must
spend just as much Dominion as the creator did to undo the change. If it
involves more physical violence, the enemy might have to simply kill all
the acolytes of Health or strew the village confines with magical
curses. A splendid magical academy established by Dominion might be
undone by a rival spending enough Dominion to blight its students and
curdle its teachings, or they might simply march an army through the
halls, knock down its towers, and kill all its faculty. Without
organized opposition, however, a change made with Dominion will persist
indefinitely.

Dominion changes that alter living creatures are constrained either by
location or by lineage. The power either changes the creatures so long
as they continue to be born in the same area, or it changes them so that
so many generations of their offspring will share the blessing. In both
cases, the scope of the change determines the breadth of the effect; a
hero who forges a race of intelligent animals could extend the effect to
an entire region, causing their offspring to be born intelligent so long
as they are born inside the region, or they could extend the power to a
region\'s worth of descendants wherever they may be born. In the latter
case, the gifts of the bloodline would gradually fade out of following
generations once the population maximum was reached.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor122}Determining
the Cost

To find out the Influence or Dominion cost of a particular change, the
GM should look at its scope and its magnitude. The wider the change and
the more dramatic the alteration, the harder it is to execute. This cost
assumes, of course, that the hero isn't able to simply make the change
with the casual exertion of their gifts.

The basic cost of a change depends on how far-reaching it is. A change
that affects only a village, neighborhood, or other small community of
people, or no more than ten or twenty square miles, has a base cost of 1
point of committed Influence or spent Dominion. One that affects an
entire city or a hundred square miles or so has a base cost of 2 points.
Affecting an entire province of a nation, a small nation-state, or a
geographic region within a state costs 4 points, and affecting an entire
kingdom worth of people or land costs 8 points. Attempting a change that
reaches an entire realm costs 16 points, and doubtless requires many
great deeds on the way.

Once the base cost is decided, this is multiplied by the difficulty as
the GM sees fit. A change that is modest and plausible, that does not
require violating the laws of nature or angering local powers is a
Plausible change with a x1 multiplier, costing no more than the base
cost of the effort. Convincing a lord to take a course of action that is
not obviously harmful, establishing a new industry in a location that
might reasonably support it, banishing a harmful social custom that
doesn't underpin local society, or discovering new resources that might
possibly be found all are all examples of a Plausible change.

Implausible changes that require bending the rules of nature or human
behavior are Improbable, and have a x2 multiplier. Convincing a lord to
take a course of action that probably will bring him harm, establishing
a new industry that the locals have no original skills in whatsoever,
adding a new social custom that harms the elite of society or would
upset the common people, or calling up new resources that have no
natural place anywhere around the site would all be changes of an
Improbable level. Complete violations of nature or political behavior
aren't possible at this level, but most acts that don't rise to that
pitch of implausibility can be done with this expenditure.

Extraordinary changes that are politically unthinkable or physically
impossible are Impossible changes that add a x4 multiplier. The only
limit to this level of change is what the GM finds plausible in a hero's
description of their efforts, and even then a sufficient number of great
deeds and mighty labors can overcome reservations. Convincing a lord to
undertake a suicidal crusade, establishing a new magical industry that
produces something impossibly advanced or enchanted, upending a
society's entire value structure in favor of a radically contrary model,
and calling up miraculous new resources that have some magical effect
are all examples of this kind of change.

Impossible changes usually require at least one mighty deed to be
accomplished in order to find the necessary components, persuade
reluctant locals, discover needful lore, or best an opposing force.
Particularly dramatic impossibilities might require several feats.

Using Influence and Dominion

Once the GM has determined the cost of the change, the player needs to
explain how they're using their Words and natural abilities to enact the
work. Their allies can aid in this, also contributing Influence or
Dominion if they can explain how their efforts are helping the cause.
Such work assumes that the allies are also contributing their free time
and effort towards maintaining the work, and if they choose to withdraw
their Influence it will collapse if the others can't fill the gap.

The Godbound don't need to cite specific gifts or powers when describing
their efforts. A Godbound of the Sun doesn't need to specify a gift when
she describes how she's using the illuminating light of the Sun to
reveal the crimes of a corrupt city bureaucracy. It is the nature of the
Sun Word to reveal the truth, and so using it in a way that fits with
its nature is suitable for exerting Influence. That Godbound might have
a harder time explaining how she uses the Earth Word to do the same
thing, and some Godbound might just not have any Words suitable for the
task they want to accomplish. In such a case, they'll need to hope one
of their allies can do the work, and think of ways that their own Words
might aid the plan their ally devises.

Dominion is spent in the same way, though the player is free to describe
permanent changes. In such a case, the Godbound might summon up the
blazing truth of the Sun to illumine the offices of the bureaucracy,
causing false documents and forged papers to blacken as if burning. Any
attempt to lie in writing is futile there, and even after the Godbound
leaves, the city's bureaucracy will be incorruptible by all ordinary
measures. The only way to undo the work is to physically destroy the
building or work some even greater miracle.

Heroes can spend both Influence and Dominion to accomplish an end. So
long as the total is sufficient for the work, the change is
accomplished. If the Influence is then withdrawn, however, the effort
fails---but the Dominion spent remains, and future attempts to restore
the work need only make up the difference. If a mighty deed or adventure
needs to be accomplished before the change can be made, the effort must
be completed before the hero can finish committing their Influence or
Dominion to the cause.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor123}Opposing
Changes

The Godbound aren't the only actors of importance in the realm, and not
all of their changes are welcome. Sometimes there are difficulties in
accomplishing a change even beyond the natural scope and magnitude of
the work.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker329}Mundus
wards are the most common problem when working changes on cities and
other places of importance. The rating of a mundus ward is added to the
base difficulty of the work. Thus, if an Improbable working is attempted
in a city with a rating 4 mundus ward, the total cost would be 12
Dominion instead of 4; a base of 6 x 2 for an Improbable change instead
of a normal city base of 2.

Rival Godbound, skilled mages, or other potent enemies can move to
interfere with the work as well. Many powerful supernatural entities
have the occult arts to hamstring any attempt to change their domain in
a displeasing way until they are overcome or persuaded to cooperate.
These enemies act the same way as mundus wards, adding a penalty to the
base cost of a change, but they also stack with wards. If multiple
Godbound or entities oppose the work, use the worst penalty, +1 for each
additional significant resister.

  ------------ -----------------------------------------------
  Resistance   Type of Enemy
  1            Minor spirits, lesser undead, angry priest
  2            Skilled mage, Strong local ruler, Misbegotten
  4            Eldritch, Uncreated hulk, Major bestial thing
  6            Minor parasite god, fresh NPC Godbound
  8            Major parasite god, veteran NPC Godbound
  ------------ -----------------------------------------------

Thus, a minor parasite god trying to stop a change in a city that\'s
also protected by a level 4 mundus ward would result have a total base
cost of 6+4+2=12, making even a Plausible change cost 12 Influence or
Dominion and an Improbable one a full 24 points. Such interference would
make most changes very difficult, obliging the PCs to either destroy the
parasite god, drive it away, or force it to back down.

Expanding Changes

There will be times when a hero wants to expand on a change or adjust
its details. Provided the new condition is within the same scope of area
and magnitude as the original change, they adjust it as they wish. If
they've managed to bestow modern technological conveniences on a place
via a painstakingly-constructed infrastructure, it's not necessary for
them to exert themselves further just to assure running water in every
home. If they've suborned the ruling council of a city, they don't need
to enact a new change every time they want the council to issue a new
ordinance. Changes within the scope of the initial working can simply be
assumed.

If the change expands on the existing state, affecting a wider area or
creating a more drastic alteration, then they must pay Influence or
Dominion for the difference between the two costs. It may also be
necessary to perform some manner of heroic deed in order to overcome the
obstacles to expanding the change\'s area of effect.

NPCs and Enacting Change

[NPC creatures don\'t use this system when they want to change
something. Instead, the GM simply decides whether or not they have the
necessary powers and resources to enact the change. If the PCs are
present when it tries to do so, let them know that something is going
on, even if they don\'t realize the true source of the change. If the
heroes then resist, the NPC must either subvert, destroy, or drive them
off before it can succeed in its plan.]{.CharOverride-13}

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor124}Mighty
Deeds and Grand Adventures

Whenever a hero wishes to achieve an Impossible change, or sometimes
even one of the more Improbable changes, they must accomplish a mighty
deed related to their work. These deeds take the form of adventures,
often ones that absorb an entire gaming session, though smaller tasks
might be handled by the group as an interlude in other play. These
adventures also count for purposes of gaining experience and Dominion,
quite aside from their use in justifying the change.

The specific nature of the deed will depend on the change being
attempted. For an impossible social or political change, the Godbound is
going to have to win the cooperation of whatever social groups are
opposed to their new regime. Nobles must be cowed, the leaders of a
ruling caste must be enlisted, or whatever economic or military
situation that currently maintains the social order must be undone. This
may not be possible through sheer brute force; the heroes might have to
perform enough favors or become sufficiently indispensable to the elites
that they have no choice but to cooperate.

For Impossible artifices, transformations and constructions, the
undertaking will require ancient relics, lost lore, and celestial
components. Usually, this means that at least one celestial shard will
be needed for the change, using the shard descriptions given in the
Treasure chapter. Some of these might be salvageable from lost ruins,
while others could require perilous expeditions into the Night Roads to
scavenge the fallen halls of Heaven. There's usually a clear pointer
toward a potential source of these parts, but the heroes might have to
do extensive and dangerous exploration of the site to actually find
them.

Establishing impossible new organizations or groups gifted with some
unique advantage might require components of both types of adventures,
both to enlist the new members and to equip them with the tools or
transformations that make them what their creator desires. Some similar
group might have existed in the distant past, and it could be necessary
to find and plunder their ancient stronghold in order to revive their
arts. Creating Impossible new creatures is particularly taxing, and can
require a great many adventures to get needed parts.

In all cases, the heroes might have to overcome a powerful entity that
is opposed to their plans. They might have all the support and
components they need to achieve their end, but if some leech-god is
opposed to it or some rival Godbound despises the idea, they're going to
have to destroy, co-opt, or drive off the enemy before they can perform
their work.

Failure in this adventure doesn't necessarily foreclose the change, but
it does mean that it's going to get harder. The Influence cost might
rise, or the secondary source for what they need might be even harder to
reach. Very little should permanently forbid a possibility to an
ambitious Godbound, but much can make it more difficult to achieve.

Tools for building these adventures are provided later in this chapter.
A GM might elect to brew up a few of these challenges at the start of
the campaign, just changing names and specifics when they need some
material for a hero's sudden ambition.

The Limits of Change

Changes that work within the limits of possibility aren't too difficult
for a GM to judge. It may be improbable to turn all the peasants of a
simple farming village into crack warriors, but a Godbound of the Sword
could conceivably do it without violating any laws of nature. The
resulting three hundred farmer-soldiers might count as 2 hit die
warriors, representing their elite veterancy, but such talent isn't
beyond imagining and doesn't grant any magical powers. In the same vein,
that same village might be able to build a magnificent castle under the
guidance of a Godbound of Artifice. It's highly improbable that they'd
all become excellent stonemasons and quarrymen, but it's within the
scope of human capability. The castle is splendid, but it isn't beyond
the local culture's powers of architecture.

But what do you do when the Artificer wants to build a tireless army of
brass farmers to tend the fields and fight off enemies? Or when the
Godbound sage with the Sorcery Word wants to teach the locals to master
some innate magical power? Both of these changes are clearly impossible,
but they don't sound unreasonable given the focus of the Words involved.
How does a GM decide just how impossible a change can be? Here are some
basic guidelines for keeping things reasonable for your campaign.

Empowering and Creating Beings

Some changes will involve granting people new skills, new abilities, or
new physical forms. Other changes might create entirely new forms of
life, or result in the building of automatons and golems.

Teaching people common skills up to an adequate level of proficiency is
usually a Plausible change with a x1 difficulty multiplier. They can
gain new mundane talents or the proficiency of 1 hit die warriors. For
NPCs, assume that they gain a Fact relevant to the teaching. Doing this
repeatedly can start to stretch the boundaries of probability, however,
as the people become remarkable polymaths.

Teaching people rare or esoteric skills or extremely pronounced
expertise in a normal field is usually an Improbable change with a x2
difficulty multiplier. Turning a village of turnip farmers into trained
practitioners of a low magic tradition or expert hydraulic engineers or
2 hit die elite warriors is theoretically possible, but highly unlikely.

Creating new beings, building automatons, or gifting people with
outright impossible abilities qualifies as an Impossible change, with a
x4 difficulty modifier. Monsters or creatures can be built with a
maximum hit dice equal to 2 plus half the Godbound's level, rounded up,
or humans can be empowered or altered into creatures of such hit dice.
Innate magical powers can be granted; a good guideline is to look at
monsters of similar hit dice and pick abilities from them, or give
abilities that mimic low magic tradition spells of up to Master level.

Alterations that are impossible but relatively modest might just have
the x4 difficulty modifier. Vast changes might be even more difficult,
forcing a x8 multiplier and obliging most Godbound to work with small
numbers of creatures in order to make it feasible. Impossible changes
will also usually require at least one adventure to acquire the
necessary components, celestial shards, breeding stock, or knowledge to
correctly enact the change. Molding a village\'s worth of them might
take one adventure, doubled for each step higher. Thus, populating an
entire region with these creatures would take at least four adventures
to get the necessary components, lore, or celestial shards.

Note that augmentations of this kind don't work on Godbound or other
powerful supernatural creatures. Only the weaker essential substance of
mortals is malleable enough to be changed so easily.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor125}Building
Edifices, Magic, and Tech

If a structure, enchantment or technology is something that the locals
could have built with their available knowledge, low magic
practitioners, and manpower, then it's a Plausible change with a x1
difficulty multiplier. While a backwater village might not have an
engineer among their number, if the culture they belong to knows how to
build aqueducts, it's not too much of a stretch for the village to do
so. If they have low magic healers to hand, then local immunity to
disease might be possible with sufficient vigilance among the adepts.

If a structure, magic or technology is something that at least one
culture in the realm could theoretically have built, or if it's just
very much larger than the available materials or manpower would seem to
allow, then it's an Improbable change with a x2 difficulty number. The
local culture may not know how to build a university with excellent
indoor plumbing, but if the humans of the realm have this technology in
general use [somewhere]{.CharOverride-2}, then the building isn't
impossible. A village might not reasonably have enough people or
quarried stone to construct a great citadel, but they could
theoretically do it if they had far more time, so it qualifies as merely
Improbable. Note that for those using the example realm in this book,
the technology of the Bright Republic is dependent upon their etheric
nodes, and those nodes are beyond their power to build. As a
consequence, any attempt to replicate their tech elsewhere in the realm
is not merely improbable, but Impossible.

Actually creating Impossible technology, exotic magical enchantments, or
structures that defy the basic laws of nature has a x4 difficulty
modifier. The amount of technology or enchanted objects created by a
change is enough to make it available to all the natives within the
scope of effect, whether that's a village, a city, a region, a nation,
or the entire realm. The workshops or ritual centers that fashion the
wonders are busy repairing, maintaining, and producing replacements, and
can't offer more than a small number of these marvels for export
elsewhere, assuming it's not just a pervasive enchantment.

Such extravagant wonders can replicate science-fiction technology or
magical marvels equivalent to the works of theurgy. The buildings they
create might float, or be made of some magical adamant, or have
sorcerous defenses beyond any normal ward. The Godbound could create
magical railways or a network of flying vehicles to carry their people
throughout the affected land. Effects that take the form of a pervasive
blessing or enchantment shouldn't be much stronger than theurgy of the
Way, or some other old-school Vancian magical spell of levels 1-3. More
powerful effects are possible at the GM's discretion, perhaps with
additional mighty deeds performed in finding components and lost lore.

Players might be tempted to outfit their Godbound with marvels created
this way. Unfortunately, producing wondrous things on a large-scale
basis prevents any of them from being especially potent. Weapons and
armor created by changes are usually limited to +1 magical equivalents,
and other magical devices should produce effects that are subtle,
narrow, or location-dependent rather than being particularly useful for
adventures. If the heroes want to create useful adventuring artifacts or
powerful magical equipment, they must follow the guidelines in the
Treasure chapter of the book.

Whether possible or impossible, constructing these things happens much
faster than normal. Individual buildings are fashioned in a week or two,
large complexes or huge structures in a month, and entire cities in a
season or two. Fabricating objects and enchantments happens in a
similarly quick way.

Changing Societies and Governments

Altering the peripheral details of a society or goading a political
force into making a plausible decision qualifies as a Plausible change,
with a x1 difficulty multiplier. The Godbound can add new traditions,
banish old customs, alter laws, inculcate new values that aren't
contrary to their culture, persuade rulers to make satisfactory
decisions, and change diplomatic standings between groups. They key
distinction at this level is that none of the changes offend or threaten
the powerful of the society or offend the masses of the people.
Convincing a lord to forgive the taxes of an impoverished village might
cost the lord some money, but only a small amount, and it's hardly worth
his concern. Convincing a lord to cease collecting taxes at all, or to
start taxing his noble vassals as if they were peasants, is much less
probable. The changes would deeply upset powerful groups within society.

Even so, these upsetting changes can be pushed through, albeit the
change then becomes Improbable with a x2 difficulty modifier. Changes
made here start to hurt people of importance or offend large numbers of
commoners, either costing them wealth, social standing, or personal
danger. Convincing a city to make war on a powerful rival with whom they
have no existing quarrel would be such a task, as would convincing a
society to abandon important economic practices such as slavery or
serfdom.

Truly unthinkable alterations to a society or political situation count
as impossibilities, with a x4 difficulty modifier. Convincing a lord to
abdicate in favor of an unknown hero, uprooting slavery from a society
utterly dependent on it, turning a pacifistic group of herders into
brutal Spartan imperialists, or banishing a normal human behavior from
society would all count as such a feat. Anything that violates
fundamental qualities of human nature or the interests of the whole
society would require this degree of investment.

Using Wealth for Influence

Money can serve as a replacement for Influence, albeit not Dominion, as
sufficient amounts of coin can make up for a lack of applicable arts. A
Godbound can spend one point of Wealth to provide one point of Influence
in any cause where money might be useful. Each additional point of
Influence increases the Wealth cost by one point; thus, to muster three
points of Influence, six points of Wealth need to be spent. Multiple
Godbound can contribute their savings to the same cause, but costs are
based on the total Wealth spent; three Godbound each contributing a
point of Wealth would produce two points of Influence, not three.

This Influence vanishes with the loss of other Influence. If the
Godbound does not remain present to monitor the use of their money, the
situation will rapidly fall back to its original state.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer103 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor126}Creating
Your Campaign

While it's certainly possible to run a [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}
campaign in the customary story arc style, it can be a challenging
undertaking. The PCs are so powerful and influential that it can become
prohibitively difficult for a GM to predict how a story arc is going to
play out. How can a GM assume that any particular situation will arise
when the PCs are capable of molding the very laws of reality?

Instead, this section explains how to arrange your game as a
[sandbox]{.CharOverride-2} campaign. Even those GMs who want to play out
a particular story line are well-served to learn these tricks, if only
to react sensibly when the PCs suddenly race away down an unanticipated
track.

The Basics of Sandboxing

The basic assumption of a sandbox game is that the PCs drive events.
There is no story line and no particular expected arc of events to play
out. Every session is about whatever the PCs are doing at the moment,
and events play out based on their natural consequences rather than any
story-progression logic.

There are some clear disadvantages to this style compared to the more
common story arc form of campaigning. The PCs have a much greater
responsibility for driving events at the table, and hesitant or
unengaged PCs can drag down an evening's play. There's also no assurance
of any payoff for early events or background elements; the PCs may end
up never going anywhere that calls back to these things. Perhaps most
concerning, however, are the additional demands of improvisation levied
on a sandbox GM. A story arc GM can be reasonably sure they've prepared
everything they're going to need for a given session. A sandbox GM can
never be sure of that.

Despite this, however, there are some real advantages to sandboxing.
Most importantly to the GM, sandbox gaming is
[surprising]{.CharOverride-2}. There's always a freshness to each
session as the GM discovers what the players are going to do next. The
aim of a campaign can swerve drastically in a single evening, and
expected events can go completely haywire from players who feel no
obligation to stick to a particular story arc. Sandbox gaming also
assures that the game is going to be about whatever interests the PCs,
thus saving the GM from worrying about a failure to engage the players
with a particular plot line.

Running a sandbox campaign does require knowing a few tricks, however,
particularly since the things that [look]{.CharOverride-2} like they'd
be important for running it are actually the things that can end up
ruining a GM's fun or exhausting their creative energy.

Sandbox GM Techniques

One of the most insidious causes of failed sandbox campaigns is GM
burnout. The sheer volume of preparation work crushes the GM, leaving
them exhausted and unable to keep fleshing out a world that seems to
have no borders. They feel an obligation to map out and detail
everything that the PCs might choose to interact with, and
unsurprisingly, they find the task beyond their powers.

The most critical skill a sandbox GM can learn is the skill of selective
preparation. They need to understand what's important to prepare and
what can be ignored. They need to learn how to efficiently use their
preparation time and how to get the maximum table utility out of the
least amount of preparation work. These are not difficult skills to
learn if the GM keeps a few basic tricks in mind.

The first is the golden rule of sandbox preparation. Every time you go
to make something, ask yourself whether it's certain to be needed for
your very next game session. If it isn't, ask yourself whether you're
having fun making it. If you answer no to that as well, [stop making
it]{.CharOverride-2}. You need to have your next session prepped, but
that's all. You don't actually need any more than that. If you're
wearing yourself out making something that isn't immediately relevant
and isn't fun, you need to stop before you exhaust yourself on minutiae.

But how do you know what you're going to need for the next session? It's
simple. [You]{.CharOverride-2} [ask the players]{.CharOverride-2}. At
the end of every session, just ask the players what they plan to do next
time. It doesn't have to be a detailed agenda or a specific activity.
Even something as general as, "We're going to go look for a parasite god
to beat down," or "We're going to look for a way to make a lot of
money," is enough for your purposes. You just need to know enough to
make a session's worth of challenges for them.

Some of those challenges and some of that content will go unused in the
session that follows. The PCs might never find a particular ruin, or
might ignore an aristocratic court you made, or might gloss over an NPC
you fleshed out carefully. [Don't waste that content.]{.CharOverride-2}
Put it back in your folder and the next time you need something like it
during a gaming session, just pull it out, change a few names and paint
jobs, and use it. Eventually, you'll have so many of these bits and
scraps in your prep folder that you'll be able to ad lib entire sessions
out of them.

The last technique to keep in mind is that of the GM's light but helpful
hand. Your campaign world is going to get scuffed up. A pack of demigods
is going to run roughshod over it, and NPCs, situations, and the
occasional nation you really like are going to get warped out of all
recognition by the PCs. You have to be willing to let this happen and
not try to keep the PCs within predefined boundaries. Even the most
outrageous feat should be at least theoretically possible for them, and
you should welcome these wild ambitions because they practically write
your material for you. Every time the PCs decide to essay some crazy
ambition, they're telling you exactly what kind of content they're going
to need prepared for the next session. The harder the feat, the more
sessions worth of material you can get out of it.

And if the players are confused and aimless? That's when you reach in
and gently point them at something interesting. Touch on a PC's goals,
or call back to their prior heroism with a sudden consequence of their
former deeds, or just throw a natural disaster in there somewhere. Let
the PCs drive the game, but if they get bogged down or don't know how to
progress their goals, give them a helping hand.

Setting Up the Campaign

The first thing you're going to need to do is set up the realm for your
campaign. A conventional sandbox game can usually get away with defining
a relatively small patch of a country or region. Godbound heroes tend to
move on a much larger scale, however, so you're going to need to have at
least a cursory idea about a much larger chunk of terrain. The example
realm provided in this book is one you can use, or you can make up your
own.

You shouldn't confuse the example realm's thoroughness with the kind of
work you need to do; a one-page map and a one-page sketch description of
the countries is plenty for this. A name and a single sentence about a
country's general flavor and one game-interesting thing about the place
is usually enough, something like: "Melektaus: Persian-flavored,
government by corrupt djinn slaves of the shah."

Next, pick one country or region of the realm as the starting point of
your campaign. This is where the game will start, and this is where the
first interesting challenge will happen to the PCs. They might choose to
abandon the place as soon as they've finished their first session, so
you don't want to pour too much detail into it. Like the other parts of
your world, let it grow naturally through play, adding on more details
and locations within it as your session needs require.

After you've picked the starting region, brew up one session's worth of
material using the tools in this chapter. Assume the PCs have been
dropped into the middle of some challenging situation that requires that
they do something about it. It may not seem very much in the spirit of
sandboxing to just write the PCs into the situation, but in this case
it's all right; the game has to start somewhere, and you can talk with
the players to get an idea of the general kind of situation they'd find
interesting to confront.

Give them one major challenge as detailed in this chapter, and then make
up one or two secondary challenges that you can use to stretch the
session out if they overcome your initial offering too quickly or turn
around suddenly and flee it. If the PCs never get around to these
challenges, just pack them up and reuse them later under a different
name or context.

The challenges should be relatively self-contained and not have too many
dangling threads. The PCs should feel free to chart their own course
after they've finished dealing with the session, and shouldn't be forced
to stick around and resolve a situation that didn't tie up neatly. The
goal of this first session is just to get the party working together,
introduce them to the world, and give them a chance to flex their divine
muscles. It can take a while for players to really get comfortable with
the powers of their PCs, and so you'll need to be ready to remind them
of the possibilities.

At the end of the session, ask the players what they want to do next,
and be ready to suggest a few things if they start to flounder. Then
take their choice back to your lair and cook up the next session's
content. Remember, you don't need to write up the whole nation or world.
You just need to stay one session ahead of the players.

Troubleshooting Your Campaign

A few issues can crop up regularly for a [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} GM.
A little careful preparation can get around them, but it's important to
know about these potential problems before they rear up at your table.
When in doubt, don\'t hesitate to take a moment to talk with the group
and settle issues that are interfering with the common fun.

Managing Words, Miracles, and Effort

New players often have a hard time getting a grip on miracles. They only
have three to six gifts to track, but their ability to use Effort to use
any gift or freeform miracle can be overwhelming.

Ease this by printing out each of their Words for them, as each Word
fits on a single sheet of paper. Highlight the gifts they've mastered
and the special ability that goes with each Word. Give them the sheets
to consult during play, and suggest ideas for miracles as needed.

To help track Effort commitments, give them a few coins or markers equal
to their total Effort. When they Commit Effort to a gift, they lay a
coin down on the gift's description on the sheet. When they Commit
Effort to a miracle, they lay a coin down on the Word's description.
When the Effort is reclaimed, they take the coin back, and the gift's
description will tell them when they're allowed to do that.

Combat and Non-Combat Godbound

Some Godbound heroes are going to be much better at combat than others.
A Godbound of Endurance, Alacrity, and the Sword is going to be worth
far more in a fight that a Godbound of Fertility, Wealth, and Knowledge.
This is usually an acceptable state of affairs, as the second Godbound
will have a much easier time creating major out-of-combat effects.

It's important to remember, however, that every Godbound can do
[something]{.CharOverride-2} useful in a fight. Even a Godbound with no
combat abilities whatsoever can invoke miracles to mimic the [Divine
Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} or [Corona of Fury]{.CharOverride-3} gifts for
their Words, directly converting their Effort into damage against a
target. They won't be able to do this often, but for as long as their
Effort lasts they're almost as effective in a fight as a focused combat
Godbound.

Their Fray die also applies just as much as any other Godbound's. While
this damage usually isn't enough to overcome a serious foe, the meekest
and mildest of Godbound can summarily squash most common men who dare
stand against them. Only in large groups do common mortals have a chance
against divine might.

Intra-Party Conflict

Godbound heroes tend to be strong-willed by nature, and players tend to
be players. It's almost inevitable that two PCs will find themselves at
cross purposes sooner or later.

A certain amount of this is perfectly fine. Honest argument over the
best course for the pantheon to take adds spice and surprise to a
session, and it makes the final decision feel more significant as a
consequence. So long as the PCs aren't actively getting in each others'
way, there's nothing to worry about.

Things get more complicated if the PCs start sabotaging or even
attacking each other. While it's possible for a group to enjoy this,
such conflicts tend to drag all the attention to the dueling PCs and
leave the rest of the group twiddling their thumbs. The best recourse is
to just ask the players to figure out a solution and put it into play so
the game can go on. If they can't, then you might have to impose a
resolution just to let the rest of the pantheon get their share of play.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer104 .Sidebar}
Sorrows and Woes

The example realm of Arcem in this book is a pretty rough place. While
there are islands of peace and property in the realm, most nations have
serious problems and crises that need to be addressed. When building
your own campaign, you should take care to provide a similar crop of
afflictions for the PCs to face.

Note that there\'s a difference between worthwhile problems and misery
porn. Problems and troubles that exist purely to show how awful a place
is are largely useless at the table; if it\'s something the PCs can\'t
possibly fix or at least mitigate then it\'s just an extra dose of
grimdark chrome. The best problems are the ones that the PCs can face
directly, even if they might not win.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer105 .Sidebar}
Adjusting Doomsday

While the cosmic background of [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is one of
creeping entropy, it\'s perfectly fine to run a campaign that pays no
attention to that. Perhaps the decay is only meaningful on a cosmic
timescale, or maybe the PCs inhabit a realm in good repair. Don\'t feel
obligated to include such troubles in your own campaign.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer106 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor127}Creating
Adventures

It\'s all well and good to have a pantheon of mighty demigods and a
freshly-fashioned world, but how is a GM supposed to make an evening\'s
gaming for them? This section of the chapter will give you the tools you
need to create adventures worthy of your Godbound heroes and tools for
fashioning the dark places they might explore.

Building a Game Session

The traditional story arc campaign format encourages the detailed
construction of adventures. As players can be expected to follow the
general lead of the story line, a GM can afford to spend large amounts
of time sculpting details and creating content, confident that it will
all get used during play. Things work a little differently for the
sandbox campaigns that [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is built to support,
especially when demi-divine heroes start crashing around a scenario.

As the GM, you start your session prep with a vague idea of what the PCs
are going to try to accomplish during the next gaming session. For the
first session of a campaign, you set the agenda. You decide what dire
situation the PCs find themselves immured in or what event is going on
that they have to respond to immediately. For later sessions of the
campaign, you\'ll get this vital information by simply asking the
players what they\'re going to do in the next session.

Once you have this information, your job is to create enough content and
enough challenges to keep everybody entertained for the next session.
Don\'t worry about the game beyond that point. You might come up with a
few broad-stroke ideas and villains to plant somewhere in the future,
but the only material you really, absolutely need is the material
necessary for running the very next session. Anything more than that
runs the risk of being wasted when the PCs suddenly hare off in a random
direction halfway through the next evening\'s gaming.

The building blocks of your evening\'s fun come in two general flavors:
situations and challenges. Situations are places or circumstances that
are genuinely interesting and that reward exploration. A noble court is
a situation, as is an ancient ruin, or a village laboring under a
magical curse. The PCs may or may not have any special objectives with
such places, but simply meeting the NPCs, exploring the physical
terrain, or learning about the situation there is interesting and can
engage their attention. Challenges are obstacles of some kind, barriers
that thwart the easy accomplishment of a PC goal. The PCs might need a
noble court\'s cooperation, or an artifact hidden in the ancient ruin,
or to lift the curse from the blighted village. If they can do this in a
summary fashion with their own abilities and gifts, it\'s not a
challenge, and it won\'t substantially occupy time or player attention.

To build an evening\'s fun, you\'re going to need interesting situations
and meaningful challenges. The information the players give you about
their goals and intentions will help you design these things, and a
little judicious preparation beforehand can help you cover the
inevitable moments when the PCs surprise you with something otherwise
unplanned.

Situations and Their Challenges

Before you create any situation, you need to ask yourself, \"Why will
the PCs care about this?\" Far too many GMs have the unfortunate habit
of creating elaborate, intricate settings or world components on which
they lavish their efforts, only to find the PCs totally disinterested in
what they\'ve built. This comes about because the GM is only thinking of
[their]{.CharOverride-2} interests. Every situation needs to have a draw
or a threat embedded in it, and those elements need to catch the
attention of the players as well as engage the creativity of the GM.

A situation\'s [draw]{.CharOverride-3} is the benefit or opportunity
that will likely come from interacting with it. A mud-hut village in the
middle of the Raktine plains is just a mud-hut village, and spending
hours delineating an intricate, moving web of social relationships and
hidden struggles is a waste of time if the PCs have no obvious reason to
care about the place. Things change if that mud-hut village is the home
of one of the PCs, and their no-good kid sister is one of the NPCs
tangled in the local web of relations. Things change even more if that
mud-hut village supposedly has the ward key pass phrase to a Former
Empire military base embedded in its secret harvest rituals.

Draws have to matter to the players. Rumors of a fabulous cache of
ancient treasures in a sealed ruin aren\'t going to provoke much
attention if the players all want to spend their time working out their
relationships with the elites of a newly-formed democratic republic in
Nezdohva. The draws that bring one group running will leave another one
cold. As the GM, you have to know your players well enough to figure out
the things that will pique their interest.

If a situation doesn\'t have a draw, and sometimes even if it does, it
needs a [threat]{.CharOverride-3}. A threat is some obviously bad
outcome that will happen if the PCs don\'t engage with the situation. If
the monarch of a noble court is planning to annex the PCs\' home village
as a convenient new source of serfs, that\'s an obvious threat. If the
ancient ruin is vomiting forth monsters that are threatening a PC\'s
loyal cultists at a nearby shrine, that too is a threat.

Be careful about embedding threats in your situations. By their nature,
most threats are very time-sensitive. The situation is going to cause a
consequence in the foreseeable future, and if the PCs don\'t act on it,
that consequence is going to come to pass. This can sometimes annoy the
players, making them feel as if they [must]{.CharOverride-2} go deal
with a particular situation in order to avoid a negative outcome, even
if they\'re not otherwise interested in the situation. Too many threats
can leave them hopping from trouble to trouble, never having a chance to
go pursue their own ambitions.

If you do want to embed a threat in a situation, it\'s often best to
make it a time-insensitive problem. The monarch [might]{.CharOverride-2}
invade the PCs\' home village at any time. The ruins
[might]{.CharOverride-2} belch forth vile beasts into the lands around
it. The peril is clear, but nothing is happening at the moment that
would force the PCs to take a specific action. If the PCs do something
to rile up the situation or otherwise get involved with it, they might
well find their engagement has triggered the threat\'s activity, and
they need to deal with it before it\'s too late to stop the inevitable.

The idea of a situation, with its draws and its threats, can be applied
at any level of your game. A noble court is a situation, yes, but so is
a long-forgotten ritual chamber in an abandoned temple. Every room or
location can be its own situation, as can every feud or alliance within
a village or noble court. The key is to provide these things with their
own draws or threats, whether that draw is a gleaming golden idol
standing in the center of the room or the risk that a village feud will
leave an opening for a hungry bandit chief to exploit. Pull the players
or push the players, but don\'t just expect their native curiosity to do
all the work of engagement for you.

[Challenges]{.CharOverride-3} are things that take place inside of
situations, obstacles that prevent the PCs from getting at a draw or
eliminating a threat. That gleaming golden idol is trapped; overcoming
the trap is a challenge. That feud in the village has three angry sides;
reconciling them is a challenge. Players can often ignore a challenge if
they decide to stop focusing on a draw or a threat, but they can\'t get
at the goodies or resolve the problem until they do something to deal
with it.

It\'s your obligation as GM to give the players interesting challenges,
but it\'s not your job to dictate their solutions. It\'s not even your
job to [imagine ]{.CharOverride-2}their solutions. The PCs are demigods.
They should be able to figure it out. Maybe their solution will involve
a radical transformation of the situation or a dramatic altering of the
context, but they have the powers and the tools to do things like that.
The GM is just there to make sure they have challenges that fit the
logic of the campaign.

It\'s important not to instinctively reach for the grand gesture and the
towering nemesis when coming up with challenges. Problems and obstacles
should fit the context, and should exist on a scale that makes sense. A
bandit chief is not going to have a thirty-foot godwalker parked in his
lair just because the PCs need something like that to create a
meaningful combat challenge. PCs who put pressure on an Ancalian warlord
will not suddenly find him supported by an Eldritch arch-theurge because
it\'d be \"too easy\" otherwise. Your world is your world, and it
players ought to be able to make rational predictions about the
resources of the antagonists they face. This isn\'t to say that they
should never be surprised, but when the bandit chief steams out of the
cave in a blazing humanoid engine of divine warfare, it should actually
[be a surprise]{.CharOverride-2}, and not the occasion for nodding all
around as the expected boss fight gets underway.

Yet at the same time, these challenges have to give the PCs at least
momentary pause. Perhaps the bandits are no real threat in combat to the
PCs, but their guerrilla hostilities toward a neighboring lord\'s men
are all that keep the villagers from being conquered as slaves. If the
PCs don\'t care what happens to the villagers afterwards, then so be it;
the bandits are eliminated, and the neighboring lord sends his men to
enslave the village. If they have greater qualms about it, they need to
either deal with the lord as well or equip the village to withstand the
invasion. Allowing challenges to daisy-chain upward in this way can
eventually relate a minor complication to a challenge that\'s serious
enough to concern even a Godbound.

Putting Things Together

To build an adventure for your Godbound pantheon, follow the steps given
below. You\'ll want to tweak and adjust things to account for what you
know about the players and the plans they\'re making for the next
session, but the framework given here should give you a basic structure
to customize as necessary.

First, take the players\' plans and identify the situation that they\'re
going to lead to. Are the PCs trying to muscle a local lord? They\'re
going to lead to his court. Are they going to try to pry open a sealed
ruin? Then you need to build yourself an interesting situation of
decayed splendor. Are they trying to discover the secret weakness of one
of the Witch-Queens of the Ulstang isles? Then they\'re going to get
thrust into a ruined ancient library or into a Black Academy snake-pit
full of scheming wizards who want favors for their information. Whatever
they\'re trying to do, use their intentions to tell you the kind of
situation you need to build.

Next, identify the draw or threat in that situation. If the reason
they\'re muscling the local lord is to keep him from declaring war on an
allied noble, then the threat they\'re trying to stop is the lord
attacking their friend. If their ambition in popping open the sealed
ruin is to scavenge some celestial engine shards they think are in
there, then the draw is the promise of the shards. Situations might have
both draws and threats, or several of both, but if you don\'t understand
what the PCs are trying to accomplish or avoid you\'re going to have a
hard time giving them interesting challenges related to it.

Now place a challenge between the PCs and the draw or threat. This
chapter includes extensive tables and suggestions for choosing
challenges for an adventure, but more will doubtless come to mind based
on the situation. If this challenge is combat-related, like a guardian
automaton in the ruins or an unsleeping, inhuman bodyguard for the boyar
they\'re trying to assassinate, then you can use the guidelines in the
Bestiary chapter to draw up something suitable. If the challenge is more
social in nature, you can use the tools in the Court section of this
chapter to identify conflicts and desires between those NPCs that need
to be placated or enlisted in the PCs\' service.

There. You now have a very simple adventure framework. At its most
basic, this is most of the information you need to run at least a brief
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} session with your friends. You may need to
note down combat statistics or make decisions on experience or Dominion
rewards for success, but you know where the PCs will be going, what they
want to accomplish there, and why that\'s going to take them some
effort.

Even so, this is a little bare-bones, particularly if you\'re trying to
make a social group full of intrigue, or a ruin with dozens of
interesting places to explore. If you want more than just a brief
diversion for the PCs, you may want to build this basic situation out.
There are a few different techniques you can use based on the kind of
situation you\'re working with.

In the first case, you\'ve got a big ruin or elaborate noble court or
complicated political situation in some important city. You want the
players to find a lot of stuff to do there. Not all of it will be
related to the draw or the threat in the situation, and much of it will
just be stuff or relationships or conflicts that have always been there
that the PCs might stumble over, explore, or co-opt for their own ends.

To do so, start sprinkling mini-draws over the figurative map. For ruins
or exploration sites, this can be literal; you can put interesting
things in various rooms or locations, using the ruin tools in this
section to flesh them out. Many or all of these might have nothing to do
with the draw or threat of the ruin, but just be interesting things that
the PCs might encounter in their explorations, either dangerous drains
to their resources or potential tools to help accomplish their ends. In
the same fashion, social groups can have other conflicts and sub-cliques
dropped into it, ones composed of a few members who have their own
relationships and goals that the PCs might get involved in.

Position at least some of these ornaments where the PCs are going to run
into them on their way to their intended draw. Put a few interesting
unrelated rooms in the ruin where the PCs are going to be delving, or
let the PCs run into the sweating majordomo of the noble\'s city manor
who\'s actually being forced into betraying his master by his beloved
daughter, who\'s a secret member of an angelic cult. Not only do these
sort of things give more depth and texture to a situation, they also
force the players to wonder what parts of the situation are entangled
with the others. Sometimes the traditional player paranoia about NPCs
can end up leading them to bizarre and highly entertaining plans based
on their own iron-clad delusions.

The second way to build out a situation is a little more complicated,
but it can greatly prolong the playtime of a situation as the PCs
unravel the complications inside of it. To put it simply, you take the
challenge that is key to resolving the draw or threat of the situation,
and then you \"gate\" it behind other challenges. The hoary old gaming
trope of \"collect these five colored widgets to open the Golden Door of
Plot\" is an example of this, where multiple lesser challenges have to
be overcome before the PCs can really drive at what they want.

For ruins and other location-based adventures, this can be taken in a
very literal fashion. It doesn\'t need to be a glowing plot coupon the
PCs need, of course. It might be a room with engineering machinery that
must be activated to open a path, or a hidden text with the location of
an impossibly well-concealed entrance, or the friendship of the inbred
tribe of priests who\'ve survived inside the Heavenly shard for
centuries and know how to reach its concealed engines. You just take the
basic challenge, identify its components, and then make obtaining or
understanding these components contingent on another challenge. You can
farm these components down as far as you want to stretch out the process
for the players.

For situations based on social groups and contexts, you can use
structures like \"They won\'t do X until you do Y for them.\", or \"They
need X or calamity Y will befall them.\" Particular important people
might not be accessible without the held of lesser allies, and those
lesser allies might need inducement beyond coin or casual friendship.
Some material point of conflict might have to be resolved before the
necessary people cooperate, such as the resolution of a property dispute
or the acquisition of vital resources on their behalf.

In all of these cases, it is very likely that the PCs will sooner or
later figure out a means of bypassing a challenge, or altering the
situation\'s context so dramatically that the challenge is no longer
relevant. This is entirely legitimate play, and indeed, some problems
may not [be]{.CharOverride-2} soluble without changing the context. An
unbeatable enemy stops being a challenge if you no longer have to beat
them to get at your goal, and a complex web of social intrigues can be
readily ignored if the PCs figure out a way to get around the gate they
present.

Remember, as a sandbox GM, it\'s not your job to force particular
outcomes. It may certainly be tempting to do so, especially when a
particular turn of events looks like it would be a lot of fun, but it\'s
crucial to resist this dramaturgical impulse. Allowing events to play
out organically from player choices and NPC reactions is crucial for
producing a long-term sense of investment in the players and a sense
that they really are important in the world. They\'re not the designated
heroes and not the official plot protagonists. They\'re Godbound. The
things that happen to and around them happen because they made certain
choices, and their responsibility for those choices can\'t be diluted by
an appeal to GM fiat. If they manage a triumph, it is because
[they]{.CharOverride-2} triumphed. If they lead their followers to
perdition, it is because [they]{.CharOverride-2} failed.

Aside from this, one of the greatest rewards for a sandbox GM is the
ever-renewed surprise of each new session. Even as the GM, you can never
be entirely sure what\'s going to happen each time the group sits down
to play. You may have a good idea of the challenges the pantheon is
going to face and understand the plans of their NPC nemeses, but you
still don\'t know just what the players are going to choose to do in the
face of this opposition. Freed from any sense of obligation to \"go
along with the plot\", players can turn out astonishing plans and
utterly unexpected changes of focus. This novelty can be remarkably
refreshing after a steady gaming diet of traditional story arcs.

Cleaning Up Afterwards

Once the PCs have finished up a session of play, it\'s time for you to
strip out the fresh, unused material from your preparation and get it
tidy for later recycling. As the GM of a sandbox campaign, you need to
use every part of your prepwork, or you\'ll find yourself expending
heroic effort each week to keep ahead of your insatiably-active PCs.
You\'ll also need to think about repercussions and consequences from the
PCs\' actions and reflect those in your campaign world.

First, go through your prepared material and identify the bits the PCs
never saw. Maybe there was a wing of the ruin they ignored, or maybe
there were some social conflict subtleties that they never noticed in
the voivode\'s court. All of this material can be stripped out and saved
for later. The next time you need a chunk of ruin or a social conflict,
just stick new names on the entities involved, slap on a fresh coat of
paint, and slot it in.

This isn\'t railroading the PCs or forcing them to encounter what
you\'ve prepared. It\'s simply a shortcut for dishing up fast content;
when you need an X, you have an X already in your notes. This can become
particularly crucial when the PCs veer off course mid-session and you
need something to throw at them while you collect your thoughts. Pulling
something like this out of your notes and pitching it at the PCs can
give you enough time to come up with a larger solution, or run the clock
out on the gaming session and buy you some downtime to regroup.

You also need to look at the PCs\' choices and decide how they\'ve
affected the situations around them. If you use the faction rules in
this chapter, decide if they\'ve created or eliminated any Features, and
perhaps run a faction turn if some in-game time has passed since the
last. This retrospective review is particularly important, because
Godbound PCs tend to do large, dramatic things that deal with problems
in the short term but leave a lot of situational debris in their wake.

Mind-controlling a king into complying with your will is certainly one
way to get his cooperation, and in the short term it might even be a
practical way to do it. But that king\'s court is likely to realize
something is wrong, the royal wizard might recognize the problem, and
the restive nobility upset by the king\'s new decrees might just touch
off a civil war between those convinced the king is acting freely and
those who find political utility in claiming that he\'s bewitched. You
can give the Godbound their immediate victories when they wield blunt
force, but remember that those unfortunate consequence lists in the
Court section are there for a reason. So too with other brute-force
solutions that might get a challenge out of the way, but cause severe
collateral problems for the people around the PCs.

One point to be careful about, however, is the temptation to turn an
easy victory into a slow-fused disaster. It can seem that the PCs got
away with a victory too easily, and game karma requires that they suffer
for it. This attitude is unlikely to be helpful in a campaign involving
demigods. Let easy challenges be easy, and hard ones be hard.

GMs also need to be wary about philosophical clashes between their own
ideals and those of the players. If you think a particular economic
system is intrinsically abusive or inevitably doomed to failure and your
player thinks it\'s the wave of the future, then there can be a
temptation to \"show\" the player how their idea is terrible. The same
inclination applies to other conflicts about how the world does or
should work. Resist this. Players don\'t play demigods so they can be
told their divine plans are stupid. Throw obvious challenges into the
situation, but don\'t sabotage their ideals. They\'re gods; they can
make almost anything work with enough effort and Dominion.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker330}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor128}Advancement
and Rewards

Once you have your situation and its challenges set up, you\'ll need to
consider what kind of rewards ought to be forthcoming to the heroes.
There are three kinds of rewards you can give a pantheon for
successfully navigating a challenge: experience points, Dominion points,
and material treasures.

Not every challenge merits a reward for its conquest, but most of the
time the players will want to see some tangible benefit from their
actions. Even if a session is purely about averting a threat to
something they value, a few experience points can make them feel like
some positive benefit was gained as well.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker331}Experience
Points

The default philosophy of experience points in
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is that every hero in a pantheon should
receive the same number of experience points for a session\'s play. If
every hero gains experience levels at the same general rate it\'s easier
for the pantheon to respond to the challenges in the campaign, as no
single PC is so far behind the others as to be unable to handle the same
opposition that the rest of the group can survive. It also spares the GM
from needing to make judgment calls about rewards that can result in
hard feelings or suspicions of favoritism in the group.

This equality comes at a price, of course. Without variable experience
awards, it\'s hard to emphasize certain activities or desired behavior
in a campaign. Some GMs may want to award bonus XP for heroes who play
out their PCs in particularly entertaining fashion, or who handle
campaign maintenance work like keeping adventure journals, or who come
up with especially cunning ploys or clever uses of their abilities. The
choice of whether or not to make individual XP awards really comes down
to the preferences of the group.

If you want to run things by the default Godbound method, however,
awarding XP is relatively simple. A session\'s XP award starts at one
point, for the players simply showing up and playing. The GM adds
another point if they successfully obtained a situation\'s draw or dealt
with its threat, what the PCs might recognize as having \"succeeded\" at
the evening\'s adventure. A third point is awarded if the PCs were
engaging a challenge that was a serious test of their abilities,
opposing an enemy or situation that was perhaps beyond them, whether or
not they successfully overcame it. Pantheons who seek out great
challenges and worthy opponents will learn and grow more quickly than
those who are content to aim at challenges they can reasonably expect to
overcome.

If the PCs consistently choose tough challenges to face and succeed in
overcoming them, this rate of XP awards will see them gaining levels
rapidly at the start of the campaign, with just one session to reach
level 2 and one more to reach level 3. After that, the advancement will
slow a little, with two more sessions needed to reach level 4, then
four, then eight, until they eventually need thirteen or fourteen
sessions to go from level 9 to 10. If they fail at their challenges, the
rate could be significantly slower.

You\'ll want to adjust your XP awards to match the level of progress for
your campaign. If you want to draw out the lower levels, for example,
give only one or two XP per session at the start of the campaign. Even
low-level Godbound can perform tremendous feats, so if you\'re new to
the game you might want to slow down the first few levels a bit to give
yourself and the players a chance to get used to their powers.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker332}Dominion
Points

Heroes need to earn and spend Dominion points to advance in levels.
Without the exercise of their divine powers on a larger scale, they
can\'t develop a deeper bond with their own celestial Words. Dominion
points can be spent to create remarkable changes in the world, craft
magical items, or otherwise erect large-scale marvels, and so the PCs
are going to want to get a steady supply of them from their exploits.

A good baseline is to give one Dominion point per session as a minimum,
assuming they\'re doing anything heroic at all and not just sitting
around the temple and meddling with their minions. If the Godbound does
something particularly in line with their divine powers and concept as a
demigod-hero, then give them one more. Any additional Dominion points
should come from their cult or the acquisition of divine treasures.

So long as the PC earns enough Dominion points to spend the minimum
required to advance a level, they\'re getting enough. If they want to
work greater miracles than that, they\'re going to have to go out and
look for the Dominion they need to do it. This need for greater power is
an excellent spur for adventure, and can have the party digging through
all manner of perilous ruins or delving into shards of fallen Heaven
across the lethal Night Roads.

Dominion Gains and Sinks

Godbound heroes can accumulate substantial amounts of Dominion if they
have a vigorous cult and an active adventuring life. This gain is
particularly pronounced if you skip time during your campaign and
advance it by some months every now and then; the monthly Dominion gain
from an active cult can give heroes a notable power boost just by
sitting around receiving worship for half a year. Conversely, Dominion
can be scarce if your campaign moves so quickly that the PCs never get
this kind of casual downtime to soak up worship.

PCs that have a lot of Dominion should be encouraged to spend it,
assuming they\'re not already motivated by their need to spend some to
advance. Building artifacts is one sink, but the larger opportunity for
spends lies in setting changes powered by Dominion, as described later
in this chapter. PCs who want to do neither can still spend their points
to support the plans of their allies.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker333}Wealth
and Artifacts

Beyond a certain point, money isn\'t a terribly enticing reward for
demigods. Godbound with the Wealth Word might have little use for it,
and even other divinities are often able to accomplish their ends
without dipping into mortal purses. Even so, a certain amount of Wealth
can smooth day-to-day transactions, and it makes an excellent reward for
faithful minions.

Magical objects are of more interest to most divinities, even if some of
them are too weak to function properly for bearers of the Words.
Fragments of the celestial engines are particularly valuable, as certain
major changes or mighty artifacts cannot be created without them. The
Treasures chapter provides guidelines for the amount of Wealth
particular creatures and locations might have in store, and gives hints
on where to put celestial fragments and other major magical finds. If
the PCs choose to engage situations where Wealth can be found, they can
find it, and if they don\'t, they clearly have other things that draw
their current interest.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer107 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor129}Creating
a Court

Courts are defined as groups of people who control some institution of
importance in the setting. A king and his courtiers make up a court, but
so does a guildmaster and his professional associates, or a chieftain
and his tribal elders, or a high priest and the clergy of a temple, or a
master thief and his guild of accomplices. While a group of Godbound
might be able to casually murder everyone in the court, this usually
means the institution becomes headless and either defunct or
uncontrollable. This might be acceptable if the PCs want to destroy the
institution, but it's much less advantageous if they want it to do them
a favor or become a useful ally.

The guidelines provided in this section are meant to help a GM quickly
create the situation of such a court and equip it with the
personalities, goals, power sources, and defenses that make it a usable
organization at the table.

Building a Court

To start building a court, determine its power structure. Authority
might be fundamentally in the hands of a single leader, or it could be
splintered among several actual leaders. This will determine who the PCs
have to convince if they want to get the court to do something for them;
a single leader might be easily bent to their purposes, but a group that
functions by consensus might require the convincing of almost the entire
group.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Organization Power Structure
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   [Autocratic]{.CharOverride-3}. One person has largely unchallenged control over the court.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   [Figurehead]{.CharOverride-3}. A public leader is actually controlled by one or more hidden figures.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   [Shared]{.CharOverride-3}. Two or more figures share ultimate decision-making authority, either officially or [de facto]{.CharOverride-2}.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   [Consensus]{.CharOverride-3}. The court makes decisions by consensus, with everyone needing to mostly-agree.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   [Democratic]{.CharOverride-3}. The court makes decisions by majority rule, either directly or through a leader who requires it.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   [Anarchic]{.CharOverride-3}. Authority is fragmented or currently unsettled, and no one is sure of their power.
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Once the power structure is determined, it's time to choose the basic
type of the group: aristocratic, bureaucratic, business, community,
criminal, or temple. The tables on the following pages will allow the GM
to determine important persons and what they need from the situation. If
a less conventional type of court is needed, they can be used as rough
models and analogues.

First, roll or pick at least three major actors, usually related to the
power structure the GM's already determined. These major actors will be
the decision-makers for the group, the ones the PCs have to deal with in
some way in order to enlist the court's cooperation. It's possible to
roll fewer than three major actors, but two is generally a minimum, and
more than five can be hard to track in play.

Next, roll or pick power sources for these major actors. These power
sources are [why]{.CharOverride-2} they are major actors. They're the
resources or connections that make an actor a force to be reckoned with,
and their usual means of exerting their will within the group.

Now pick at least one conflict for the group. This is something that
someone is trying to make happen and someone else is trying to discover
or counter. Pick one of the major actors as the protagonist of the
conflict and a second as the antagonist. Assign other major actors to
either side, or as neutral third parties who could be swayed to either
cause depending on their inducements. PCs are likely to have to deal
with this conflict if they're to win allies in the court.

Then roll a few minor actors and choose their relationship to the
conflict. Maybe they're the persons being fought over in the case of an
unwanted marriage or a disputed heir, or maybe they're catspaws or
minions of the major actors, or it could be they're just sympathetic
bystanders who can introduce the PCs to the conflict.

PCs being PCs, it's possible that the heroes will just blow through the
court, destroying it or wrenching it into obedience with reckless use of
their powers. Pick or roll a consequence of its destruction to represent
the negative consequences of carelessly overwhelming it. Every court has
a function in its society, and heroes who just knock it over will find
the consequences potentially unpleasant. More delicate use of Influence
or careful employment of persuasive powers can avoid these catastrophes,
but a pantheon that just steamrolls a court with no thought for the
aftermath must deal with the eventual blowback.

Courts also have their defenses against this kind of manhandling. The
court defenses table provides suggestions for each type, with the GM
assigning combat statistics to any relevant defenders or deciding the
nature of less tangible protectors. These defenses may not be up to
resisting a determined pantheon of Godbound, but they can be enough to
discourage the more casual murder of officials or burning of troublesome
villages.

Making \"Blank\" Courts

A GM can often find a need for courts coming up with little advance
warning. The PCs may suddenly decide to deal with a city's ruler or
enlist a local village for their plans. It can be difficult to respond
gracefully to these sudden swerves without a little pre-game
preparation. To deal with this eventuality, a GM can make up "blank"
courts, and it can be handy to have a few ready before the campaign
starts.

To do this, just roll up a court as usual, but don't assign names to the
actors or detail the conflict too closely. When the need for a court of
that type arises, just pull it out, fill in some appropriate names, fit
the conflict to the context, and roll with it.

Courts and Factions

Some courts represent the ruling body of a particular faction, whether
that\'s the Patrian Empire\'s imperial court, a Black Academy
administration, or a Dry Port tyrant\'s court. Subverting it and winning
the cooperation or submission of the court might put the Godbound
entirely in control of the faction.

Doing this smoothly requires more than casual gift or Influence use.
Winning a favor from the faction or convincing it to take a particular
action is one thing, but if the Godbound actually want to take it over
and become the powers behind its throne, they\'re going to need to do
impressive amounts of maneuvering to avoid civil strife and brutal
internal struggles. Would-be usurpers and restorationists will start to
move on the suborned power as soon as they recognize the situation. Only
a well-prepared Godbound will be able to hold things together.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer108 .Text-Frame}
Aristocratic Courts

Aristocratic courts can be used as the model for both conventional
autocracies and more democratic councils. It can be particularly useful
to roll up a court for any nations or cities of especial importance to
the PCs, so as to have a set of NPCs on hand when the players inevitably
try to muscle in on the local authorities.

The court mood provides a general "feel" for the group, whether it's a
monarch's palace coterie or the tense city council of an important
mercantile capital. The nobility referenced in the chart can easily be
swapped over to guild or financial elites when a GM needs to define a
less autocratic government.

Noble courts tend to operate on an intricate currency of favor, with a
strong autocrat bestowing the royal smile on useful or pleasing
courtiers. Success at beguiling the monarch is a fast track to wealth
and high title, while suffering public shame or disapproval will bring
out a host of eager rivals to carve away lands and titles. Humiliating a
courtier can be cause for a murderous grudge, as the circling sharks of
the court are always eager to tear at a wounded grandee.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer109 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  d12                     Conflicts                                Consequences of its Destruction                      Court Defenses
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A favorite is being too indulged         A civil struggle or civil war would break out        A crew of bodyguard-magi
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A foolish policy is being enacted        A much worse set of replacements are waiting         A magical defensive construct
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A loan may or may not be repaid          A neighboring court would be infuriated by it        A very capable sorcerer
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    A marriage is being forcibly pressured   A vital project would collapse disastrously          An elite corps of human warriors
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    A noble title is fought over             Actually, nothing particularly bad would happen      Buildings with dire traps
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Dispute over the heir                    Hostile outsiders would seize the opportunity        Extreme seclusion of the nobility
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Grudge over an old treachery             Many locals would be furious at the disruption       Lingering magical blessing
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Land ownership is in question            No one else with any pretense of legitimacy          Magical guardian beast or beasts
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Ownership of vital regalia is disputed   Only they know how to work the government            Powerful empyrean wards
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Someone resents a lack of reward         Their lineage is needed to operate vital magic       Powerful personal defensive magic
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Someone\'s genealogy is challenged       They represent the major elements of society         Swarms of trained guardsmen
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Someone\'s using dark sorcery            They\'re holding back a dire threat to the society   Vast mobs of devoted servants
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer110 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Major Actor                  Minor Actor                      Power Sources
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Court sorcerer               Amoral sycophant                 Has access to the state treasury
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Cunning vizier               Commoner petitioner              Has assassins and criminals at their beck and call
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Discarded former favorite    Court musician                   Has ties with powers in a neighboring state
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Foreign ambassador           Disguised spy                    Has vigorous backing from a local religion
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Heir to rule                 Disposable plaything             Impeccable bloodline or legitimacy
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Honored general              Foreign artist                   Important figure is utterly smitten with them
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Noble clergyman              Gossiping servant                Much loved by the common people
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Noble family matriarch       Grizzled guardsman               Numerous family ties with other nobles
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Ruler\'s favorite courtier   Hired assassin                   Owns vast amount of personal wealth
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Ruler\'s spouse or lover     Ruler\'s personal body-servant   Possesses strong magic or exotic resources
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Titular ruler                Scheming clerk                   Spying and blackmail have armed them well
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Treasury keeper              Veteran huntsman                 Very influential with the military
  ----------------------- ---------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer111 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Court Mood
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Beauty-loving, with exquisite art and architecture
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Bluff and familiar, with easy access to nobility
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Bracing for an expected clash or change of rulers
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Confused, with a welter of plots and counterplots
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Corrupt, where everything takes cash or favors to do
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Decadent, obsessed with exotic pleasures
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Decaying, hidebound by rules no longer understood
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Delusional, convinced of a false situation in the world
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Paranoid, with everyone suspected of treachery
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Rigidly formal with elaborately protocols enforced
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Vibrant with activity and bold ambition
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Xenophilic, eager for foreign fashions and visitors
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer112 .Text-Frame}
Bureaucratic Courts

Bureaucracies are found most often in socially sophisticated,
high-population communities. In Arcem, the nations of Dulimbai and the
Bright Republic are administered by bureaucracies, while almost every
major city on the continent has an urban bureaucracy to oversee the
city's operation. More primitive societies tend to be directly
administered by the nobles of an aristocratic court, with clerks and
officials replaced and arranged at their patron's whim.

Bureaucracies can be savage in a way that conventional aristocracies
can't approach. An aristocracy is usually based on bloodlines, limiting
the number of potential competitors for power, whereas a nation-spanning
bureaucracy offers places to anyone with the cunning and determination
to take one. The intrigues and schemes within a large bureaucracy can
result in a body count high enough to impress a Raktine voivode. Anyone
capable of attaining high rank in a great bureaucracy is almost
certainly capable of far less charitable acts.

The actors and roles below are applicable chiefly to national
bureaucracies, but can be translated as needed into city officialdom.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer113 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
  d12                     Conflicts                                 Consequences of its Destruction                     Court Defenses
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A noble's trying to muscle the bureau     A critical project would fail with much suffering   A mighty wizard in their debt
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A reformer wants to kick someone out      A now-unfettered rival would seize much power       Confiscated magical artifacts
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A usurper seeks someone's position        A rival bureaucracy would gain their portfolio      Contingent of well-trained police
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Somebody's embezzling state funds         A vital government function would cease             Deal with a supernatural protector
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Someone's a spy for another bureau        An enemy nation would take advantage of it          Decentralized offices of import
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Someone's an agent of a foreign state     An incompetent noble would take over, badly         Detachments of regular soldiers
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    The bureau is too rich for its own good   Complete administrative paralysis of the nation     Guardian sorcerers for the office
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The bureau's critically underfunded       Criminal powers would fill the vacuum               Heavily-armed tax enforcers
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The bureau's job just got terribly hard   Government secrets would scatter with clerks        Not all clerks are human
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The bureau's missing taxes or fees due    It would enrage the ruler or other bureaucrats      Operatives from the espionage arm
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The bureau's riddled with corruption      Oppressed peasants would chance a revolt            Sheer numbers of clerks
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   The ruler is upset with the bureau        Unrelated services would worsen as focus shifts     Venerable fixed wards
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer114 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Major Actor                     Minor Actor                            Power Sources
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    "Retired" kingmaker             Ambitious young clerk                  Numerous important locals owe them big favors
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Chief justice                   An official's favorite lover           Only they actually know how to operate the bureau
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Chief spymaster                 Clerk who spies for a rival official   Their peers in the bureau all admire and like them
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Head of tax collection          Crony capitalist business owner        Their police ties give them legal carte blanche for much
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Head of the police              Cynical clerk seducing their way up    They have access to relevant state secrets
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Minister of Agriculture         Desperately confused petitioner        They have blackmail material on their superiors
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Minister of Foreign Affairs     Distracted record archivist            They have limited but very useful legislative power
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Minister of Internal Affairs    Hapless tax debtor doing "favors"      They have powerful business ties they can exploit
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Minister of Temples             Litigant seeking to bribe someone      They have the means and allies to assassinate people
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Minister of Trade               Official demoted for his sins          They have ties to powerful local criminal groups
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Minister of War                 Smuggler dodging tariffs               They're deeply loved by the local ruler for their skills
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Secretary of a great minister   Wizened old clerk who knows all        They're very personally wealthy or from a rich family
  ----------------------- ------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer115 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     How is the Bureaucracy Regarded?
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Admired, for its probity and efficiency at its work.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Aristocratic, as a refuge for excess noble offspring.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Autocratic, the real power behind a puppet ruler.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Contemptuously, as a pack of incompetent obstacles.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Corrupt, willing to do anything for a little silver.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Dangerous, where political losers tend to die young.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Hidebound, in opposition to all new things of any kind.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Irrelevant, with the real administration lying elsewhere.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Novel, being new to the area or full of new methods.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Pious, largely an outgrowth of the local majority faith.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Reverenced, as cultured elite due honor and respect.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Self-interested, only concerned with its own power.
  ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer116 .Text-Frame}
Business Courts

Not every nation looks kindly upon merchants. In some lands they are
considered to be little more than parasites to be barely tolerated for
their utility, avaricious graspers beneath even the lowest farmer or
craftsman in their social standing. In others, they might openly rule
the nation through a council of guilds or oligarchy of powerful megacorp
representatives.

Some businesses may have their own force of guards or black-suited
heavies, but most of the others won't have any more muscle available
than that employed by the nearest bold-hearted employee. Direct violence
against such businesses is often easy enough to accomplish, but the
friends they have in the local government can make for painful
consequences. Even when that's not the case, the disruption of local
commerce can have catastrophic effects on the common folk.

PCs who enlist the aid of a major local business can expect a lot of
practical jobs to get done without the burden of Influence commitment. A
well-placed business can often do more good than any number of
swordsmen.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer117 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  d12                     Conflicts                                    Consequences of its Destruction                         Court Defenses
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A competitor's trying to buy them out.       A fragile, valuable economic link breaks up.            "Protection" outfit legbreakers
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A traitor's working for a competitor.        Debt chain reaction takes out a major firm.             A crew of burly, loyal employees
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    It's struggling under a heavy debt.          It would enrage their major customers.                  Decentralized business control
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Major actors are divided on strategy.        It would infuriate influential business partners.       Expensive lawyers
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Recent effort has gone drastically bad.      Only they can provide a critical local service.         Heavily fortified businessplace
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    The employees are in an uproar.              The local ruler relies on it for exerting control.      Hired local wizard
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    The locals blame it for something dire.      Their competitors are much more rapacious.              Hired mercenaries
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The owner is incapacitated indefinitely.     They provide critical employment to locals.             Inherited magical defenses
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The ruler "asked" for a very costly favor.   They're holding a community creditor at bay.            Personally fearsome owner
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Their survival hinges on ongoing crime.      They're keeping out ruffians and exploiters.            Protective local citizens
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   They're covering up a major crime.           They're paying off outside threats or grafters.         Purchased magical defenses
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   They've lost a vital secret or tool.         They're the only supplier of a vital local necessity.   Special police protection
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer118 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Major Actor                   Minor Actor                       Power Sources
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Biggest business rival        "Protection" outfit heavy         The business owes them a great deal of money.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Biggest customer              Aspiring vendor to the business   The employees love them and listen to them unfailingly.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Brash entrepreneur            Bribeable local inspector         The others are physically afraid of their displeasure.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Brilliant innovator           Devoted long-time staffer         The vendors only trust them to negotiate supply buys.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Careless owner's child        Embittered ex-employee            They can legally wreck the business if too displeased.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Chief accountant              Gold-digging lover of the owner   They have magic or technology critical to the business.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Critically-skilled employee   Infuriated customer               They hold a secret critical to carrying out the business.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Hard-bitten founder           Oldest employee of the business   They know the details of a secret crime of the business.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Heir-apparent to business     Petty thief of stock              They legally hold a large amount of the business' money.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Main supplier of goods        Shady black market contact        They own the deed to a major business facility.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Major investor                Spy for a rival business          They're holding back the local extortionists and thieves.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Popular crew foreman          Wildly impractical dreamer        They're particularly friendly with the local ruler.
  ----------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer119 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     How is the Business Currently Doing?
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    They're teetering on the edge of bankruptcy.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    It's been a long, dry season of barely hanging on.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    It's a recent golden age of sudden, dramatic expansion.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    It's chasing itself in circles, without coherent direction.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    It's being threatened by a rival enterprise.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    It's made an enemy of the local officials somehow.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    A great opportunity is present, albeit hard to exploit.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    It's fat and happy, going on as it always has before.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The local ruler has an interest in its thriving.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   It's secretly cutting corners in its products or services.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   It's getting by on past glories, now a dwindled remnant.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   It's trying to branch out into a new field or location.
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer120 .Text-Frame}
Community Courts

Small villages, city neighborhoods, and tribal groups all have their own
particular dynamics. Novice Godbound are particularly likely to find
themselves dealing with these small communities and borderland villages,
and they have the power to change life dramatically for the residents of
these places.

Small communities rarely run by raw force. A city official might have
guardsmen at their disposal and a largely unchallenged monopoly on
violence. A village mayor or tribal chieftain has no such luxury.
They're far enough from central authority to have to sort out their own
problems, and the chiefs who try to solve all their difficulties with
the spears of their kinsmen will rapidly run out of kinsmen.

Decisions and punishments instead come through group consensus and the
guidance of mutually-accepted tradition. Rival actors strive to make
sure they have the bulk of the community on their side, with enough
margin to overawe any resistance. This persuasion can take place via
money or threats, but also through the remembrance of old favors,
kinship ties, and reminders of old grudges to be satisfied.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer121 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
  d12                     Conflicts                                 Consequences of its Destruction                    Community Defenses
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A family head is mistreating their kin    A celestial law will loosen due to lack of rites   A guardian spirit or entity
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A family is being denied its old rights   A dark power will recruit the survivors            A mighty retired hero
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A local is profiting from a dire crime    A local noble will be angry at the loss            A mob of angry peasants
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    A new faith is preaching to locals        A now-unchecked threat will grow                   A potent local sorcerer
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Dire want threatens family survival       A survivor will cut a deal with a sinister power   A relic of protection or power
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Locals struggle to own a new discovery    An important trade link will collapse              A resident noble and his guards
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Outsiders seek to buy village land        Kin-related villages will be furious               A secret cult with potent magic
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Outsiders seek to control the group       Nearby communities will lack a vital export        A small garrison of outside troops
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Someone might be using dark magic         Revolutionaries will recruit the survivors         Bandits who need the group
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Someone wants to attack a rival group     Survivors will scatter and speak of the PCs        Close alliances with neighbors
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Tradition is demanding a sacrifice        The fury of a powerful home-town hero              So poor they can easily flee
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Vital resources are being depleted        The survivors will turn to banditry                Trained guardian beasts
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer122 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Major Actor                    Minor Actor                          Power Sources
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Best hunter or farmer          Adulterous spouse of major actor     Important outsiders will only deal with them
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Biggest gossip                 Bad-luck farmer or hunter            Only they know a skill that's vital to the community
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Chief troublemaker             Bandit seeking refuge or loot        Their word is taken as final in matters of tradition
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Hedge magician                 Barfly who hears all                 They have a huge family that backs them
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Keeper of local relics         Local innkeeper or guest-keeper      They have a powerful magical item at their disposal
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Mayor or chieftain             Local miller or tanner               They have outsider friends with few scruples
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Most eligible unwed youth      Naive farm lad or lass               They have unusual wealth for the community
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Official from outside world    Native prodigy at some local skill   They know secret magic or forbidden arts
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Rich trader or merchant        Outcast suspected of evil magic      They know the local terrain and its useful secrets
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Rival village or tribe chief   Part-time prostitute                 They're related to several important families or people
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Shaman or village priest       Retired outsider seeking quiet       They're remarkably beautiful and persuasive
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Wealthy outsider               Shabby vagabond                      They're very personally formidable in a fight
  ----------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer123 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Community Temperament
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Amoral, indifferent to harm to outsiders or strangers
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Corrupt, dealing with bandits and the sinister
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Dislocated, recently forced to move or give up land
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Divided, two factions furious with each other
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Flush, enjoying new wealth from some new source
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Insular, polite but reluctant to deal with strangers
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Martial, expecting violence from the world
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Oppressed, afflicted by some outside power
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Pious, with life revolving around the community faith
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Placid, the locals largely content with their lot
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Rigid, clinging to tradition in the face of some peril
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Xenophobic, mistrusting outsiders as dangerous
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer124 .Text-Frame}
Criminal Courts

Criminal organizations, street gangs, and secret cabals of the mighty
all play an active role in most major human communities. Heroes who find
themselves at cross purposes with a guild of assassins might encounter
these groups as foes, while those who struggle against a tyrant can find
them useful allies in their cause, if perhaps not particularly
trustworthy ones.

Criminal groups provide an outlet for desires and inclinations that the
society cannot openly permit. Theft, violence, rule outside the
conventional political lines, and other exertions of human ambition are
welcomed by these organizations. Buyers of forbidden substances, illicit
services, or hidden information all find uses for their help. These
seekers and buyers are the constituency of any criminal group.

Heroes often encounter these groups as enemies, as precious few of them
have any interest in goals beyond their own personal satisfactions.
Simply killing a thief king or guildmaster of assassins rarely changes
affairs, for the essential desires remain along with personnel to
replace the fallen. Eliminating them often requires structural change.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer125 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------
  d12                     Conflicts                                Consequences of its Destruction                     Organization Defenses
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A lieutenant rebels against the boss     A local group relies on them for a living           Crew of elite assassins
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    An assassin\'s after a major actor       The ruler uses them to contain a serious rival      Elaborate poisons
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Control of a new drug or contraband      Their affiliates provide vital financial services   Extremely hard to find
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Control of an important local official   Their blackmail would get out, causing chaos        Frame foes for crimes
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Dispute over whether to kill someone     They act as jailers to a magical danger             Hidden in fortified area
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Expulsion of outsiders from their turf   They actually provide vital aid to the poor         Hostages or familial threats
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Possession of a new-found treasure       They bleed off otherwise-active rebels              Innocent front group
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Revenge for a theft or offense           They defend an innocent group from pogroms          Many suborned commoners
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Someone\'s trying to unify local gangs   They hold back a tyrannical force of oppression     Mobs of burly street thugs
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Someone\'s turned traitor to the law     They keep monsters from infesting dark places       Several corrupt officials
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Subverting a source of law and order     They keep practical order on the streets            Stolen magical relics
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Turf struggle over working territories   They retain important magical arts                  Treacherous seducer
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer126 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Major Actor               Minor Actor           Power Sources
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Ambitious revolutionary   Ambitious thief       Controls a dangerous gang or cabal
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Beggar king               Bribed guardsman      Controls fencing or money handling
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Brothel owner             Canny smuggler        Handles the corrupt local officials
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Corrupt official          Cynical prostitute    Has a stable of urchins and/or prostitutes
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Expert cat burglar        Disposable thug       Has connections with the local elite
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Family patriarch          Embezzling clerk      Has potent magic or a powerful relic
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Gang leader               Frightened shopkeep   Knows secret paths and ways to anywhere
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Grasping priest           Reluctant debtor      Owns a number of useful front businesses
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Loan shark                Roving pickpocket     Patriarch/matriarch of extended criminal family
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Master assassin           Scrawny urchin        Provides a driving ideology for the group
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Scheming merchant         Sharp-eyed beggar     Provides muscle or murder for the group
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Venal priest              Well-paid lawyer      Provides social legitimacy for the group
  ----------------------- ------------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer127 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------
  d12                     Main Line of Crime
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Banditry in the surrounding area
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Blackmailing and spying for the rich
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Extortion from local merchants
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Fighting rival groups for turf
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Hired assassination and other violence
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Human trafficking for labor or pleasure
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Import of drugs or forbidden contraband
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Persecuting a perceived group of enemies
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Pickpocketing and petty theft
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Smuggling of goods to avoid customs taxes
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Theft and embezzlement from the government
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Vices of all expensive kinds
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer128 .Text-Frame}
Temple Courts

Even in the wake of the Shattering and the fall of the Made Gods,
humanity requires the consolation of faith. Shrines provide a place of
meaning for believers, a place where their purpose can be revealed and
the right way to happiness can be taught. Whether Unitary churches,
temples to the glorious ancestors of the state, shrines to wildland
gods, or retreats of mystical philosophy, these temples provide the
service of meaning to those who come to them.

Temples often have powerful influence on the populace of a location.
Nobles and commoners alike are eager for the favor of the gods and the
pardon of their sins, and their belief in these things is often both
strong and sincere. In a world of such terrible marvels and ineffable
wonders, what sensible soul would deny the importance of recruiting as
much mystical help as possible?

Temples have allies among both the faithful and the spiritual entities
they serve. Even entirely unaffiliated powers can be enlisted into a
temple's service through the correct rites and the right tweaks of
theology. Such creativity is often embraced when it proves needful.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer129 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  d12                     Conflicts                                  Consequences of its Destruction                     Temple Defenses
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A cleric seeking a pact with evil          A curse will fall upon desecrators                  Powerful priestly magic
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Accepting another temple's authority       A dangerous cult will fill the void                 Animated idol
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Change of the temple's political focus     Government needs its support for legitimacy         Divine blessings on temple
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Control of a powerful, naive believer      It will infuriate a foreign branch of the faith     Many sturdy guardsmen
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Enlisting an unsavory group of allies      It\'s maintaining vital spiritual defenses          Infuriated mob
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Major cleric pursuing a secret vice        It's sealing away a terrible power                  Noble patrons
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Obscure but vital theological dispute      Its destruction will incite a violent prophet       Sacred beast or summons
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Overthrow of a troublesome local           Local believers will be riotous                     Fortified temple
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Performing a dangerous magic rite          Only it knows how to perform a vital service        Fanatical zealots
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Quarrel over control of the treasury       The local poor rely on temple charity               Powerful defensive relics
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Selling a mighty relic or great treasure   The local rulers will be outraged                   Wards against divine powers
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Silencing of a problematic priest          Will cause drastic celestial damage to local laws   Dire curse on assailants
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer130 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Major Actor                  Minor Actor            Power Sources
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Aged holy figure             Devoted commoner       A favorite of the local nobility or elite
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Eager reformer               Dusty librarian        Beloved by the poor faithful of the religion
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    High priest or priestess     Foreign pilgrim        Controls a vital relic of the faith
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Keeper of the relics         Grubby temple serf     Divine spouse or beloved of an important cleric
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Leader of a faithful group   Guilt-stricken local   Famously effective debater or apologist
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Magically-gifted priest      Household priest       Has a sacred or important bloodline
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Pious noble                  Instructor-priest      Has access to great wealth personally
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Popular preacher             Naive monk             Has some useful or potent form of magic
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Propounder of a heresy       Relic vendor           Has taught or brought up most local clergy
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Temple guard chief           Temple guardsman       Holds a vital position as a life-long post
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Temple treasurer             Temple spy             Knows a wealth of secrets and confessions
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Zealous crime boss           Tithe collector        Owns the temple building or land
  ----------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer131 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Temple Mood
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Antiquated, caring only for things of a different time
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Austere, refraining from visible luxury or indulgence
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Careless, priests little interested in spiritual duties
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Confused, in the midst of some great change
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Distracted, the priests caring about a secular matter
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Laboring, hard-pressed by the needs of believers
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Mystical, full of somewhat incomprehensible priests
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Opulent, jeweled and golden in wild excess
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Rigid, uniform and disciplined in its clergy
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Tense, priests constantly ready to attack each other
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Unworldly, reluctant to get involved with secular things
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Vengeful, furious against the enemies or rivals
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer132 .Text-Frame}
Building an Example Court

The GM is beginning the game in the Raktian Confederacy, with the heroes
starting out in the market town of Varbitsa. The GM has decided that
Varbitsa is a fairly ordinary Raktian town, with a ruling voivode and
his court. As the GM finds it likely that the PCs will entangle
themselves with the authorities sooner or later, they decide to roll up
an aristocratic court for Varbitsa. While they could pick items from the
list, they decide to spice things up with random rolls.

The first roll is for the power structure of the court, and comes up
"Anarchic". Despite the voivode's best efforts, neither he nor anyone
else has an unchallenged grip on affairs. This spells misfortune for the
town, for a weak leader means trouble in the Raktines.

The GM then turns to the court table and rolls for three major actors,
coming up with the ruler, the ruler's heir, and the ruler's favored
courtier. The GM takes a moment to name each of these, as the Voivode
Nicolai Vasile, his eldest son Dragomir, and the peerlessly charming
Lady Stefania of his court.

Now the GM rolls to determine why these three figures are important. The
voivode is, of course, the voivode, but the title itself is only so much
use. The dice say his real strength comes from the vigorous support of
the local church, with its priests preaching regularly of his piety and
the blessings it brings his lands. For his son, it is his bloodline and
legitimacy; there are no other real candidates for the succession should
the voivode meet with misfortune. For the Lady Stefania, it appears that
her father left her a vast sum of wealth which she employs to her best
advantage.

And what advantage is desired? The GM rolls for a conflict now, to see
what the immediate problem at court might be. The dice say that land
ownership is in question. Given the anarchic state of the court, it
seems that voivode Nicolai and his son are not in full agreement as to
who should rule the city. Dragomir clearly thinks his father is too
besotted with the priests, and should retire to a monastery to pray away
his many sins. Nicolai is aged and unwell, and much distracted by his
piety, but refuses to yield to the "suggestions" of his son. The
officials of the court fear the anger of both, and so occupy themselves
in avoiding notice rather than carrying out their contradictory
instructions.

Lady Stefania is yet neutral in this dispute, for she has not decided
which of the two would mean more power for her. She could force Dragomir
to marry her for her support, but is it safe to ally with one who would
depose his own father? Nicolai is safer, but if his son is banished,
what will become of Varbitsa when the voivode dies?

Now the GM rolls up a few minor actors for flavor, coming up with
Signore Vezzini, the skilled Vissian painter employed by Nicolai,
Grigori the lickspittle toady who does Dragomir's dirty work, and the
splendid singer Alina who entertains Lady Stefania and the court. The GM
can use these NPCs as color for the court and names to slot in to any
intrigues that might ensue.

But what happens if the heroes simply kill the voivode or use raw force
to compel his cooperation? Such an act would destroy his legitimacy as a
ruler and lose him what little control he retains. To find out the exact
consequences, the GM rolls on the table and finds out that in truth,
nothing at all bad would happen. Varbitsa is so accustomed to its
hamstrung leadership that it's learned to function without them.

The voivode and his court are unlikely to wish to bow meekly to such
force, however, so the GM rolls to find out what sort of defenses these
aristocrats have against brute bullying. It appears that a very capable
sorcerer in on retainer for the court, and since this is Raktia, the GM
decides that it is a theurgist of the nearby Black Academy, one capable
of working spells that might discomfit even a Godbound. The GM gives her
the name Cosima, and decides she is largely indifferent to the doings of
the court so long as she gets her pay and a suitable supply of criminals
as experimental subjects. The GM notes down her combat statistics as a
lesser Eldritch from the bestiary chapter.

Lastly, the GM rolls to determine the court's overall mood, to better
describe it to the PCs. The dice say that the court is corrupt, and that
nothing happens without money. The quarreling between the voivode and
his heir has clearly resulted in pay being stopped for many of the
lesser officials and servants, and they are now so desperate for money
that they will perform almost any favor for enough silver. Lady Stefania
doubtless takes much advantage of this.

To wrap things up, the GM now notes down this information on a 3x5 index
card, writing down the names of the actors, their power sources, the
nature of the conflict in the court, and the combat statistics for
Cosima. On the back of the card will be recorded any further events and
notes made about PC involvement in affairs.

Had the GM less certainty about what aristocratic court would be
important for their game, they could have easily done the process up to
this point to make a "blank" court, just leaving out NPC names and the
details of the conflict. Had Varbitsa's court suddenly become important,
they could then take five minutes during play to fill in some Raktian
names, smooth out the conflict into the context of Varbitsa, and rolled
with that.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer133 .Sidebar}
Crushing a Court

There will inevitably be times when the PCs just don\'t have the time or
the inclination to play nicely with a court. Either through brute force
or mind-control powers, they\'ll seek to simply compel the court\'s
members to give them the aid or submission they seek. As the GM, there
are a few things to keep in mind with this.

First, not all courts can be pushed over so easily. The tables in this
section provide examples and suggestions for a court\'s major guardians,
but powerful nations or major organizations are going to have a wide
array of protections against simple force. Overthrowing an emperor
should never be impossible for Godbound, but it may be
[impractical]{.CharOverride-2} for a given pantheon.

Second, some courts really can be pushed over that easily. The village
elders may have nothing more than their strong sons to enforce their
will, and if a Godbound decides to make them do something, they\'ve got
little choice but to obey. Don\'t hesitate to let a pantheon shove
around a court that wouldn\'t rationally have the resources to stand up
to them.

Third, raw force almost never gives results as satisfactory as working
with the court. Even if the members are reduced to puppets, the people
they command and those who obey them are likely to recognize the
coercion or uncharacteristic pliancy of their leaders. This loss of
legitimacy will bring trouble, and the problems exampled in the tables
are just some possibilities. The longer the situation persists, the more
likely an uprising.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer134 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor130}Creating
a Ruin

\"Ruin\" is a catch-all term for any potentially dangerous place that
would reward the PCs\' exploration. It can be an actual ruin, or a
parasite god\'s temple, or the stronghold of a mutant bandit clan, or
the labyrinthine sewers of a Patrian city, or a shimmering fragment of
fallen Heaven itself. The ruin is dangerous, but there\'s something
there that would make its exploration worthwhile for the PCs.

Ruins need to be interesting. They form the \"situation\" backdrop of a
session, which means they need an adequate supply of challenges and
novelties to play with. While it\'s possible to make a ruin by simply
slapping down a location, stuffing a monster in it, and dropping a pile
of gold in the corner, such desultory ruins aren\'t likely to entertain.

Start with identifying the ruin\'s original purpose. This might be
randomly rolled or it could be determined by the needs of the session.
If the PCs are trying to reach a shard of Heaven to plunder its damaged
engines, then you\'re going to need to create a shard. If you\'re just
brewing up a ruin to have some quick content in your back pocket, then
you can let the dice have their way.

Once you know what it was for, pick or roll a hazard for it. Quite aside
from any lethal inhabitants, this hazard explains why the ruin is still
a ruin and hasn\'t already been looted bare. Some ruins might not have
an intrinsic hazard, but adding one can help simplify your life when you
need to come up with little details for the place.

With that settled, determine the ruin\'s reward. This may not actually
be a good thing, but it\'s the thing that makes the ruin worth exploring
for the PCs. It\'s some magical object, fragment of lore, vital NPC, or
circumstantial benefit that comes from mastering the place\'s perils.
The Treasure chapter of the book describes lesser caches that can be
found around the place, but the ruin\'s reward should be something that
makes the players feel like they haven\'t wasted their effort.

Next, choose or roll the ruin\'s inhabitants. These may not be
invariably hostile to outsiders, particularly outsiders as impressive
and persuasive as Godbound can be. Keep the setting\'s logic in mind
when determining these inhabitants; just because the PCs are at a
certain power level doesn\'t mean that the inhabitants are a \"fair\"
combat match for them. The inhabitants should make sense for the
location, whether that\'s a random pile of rocks in the Golden Wastes or
the vaulted halls of a shard of Heaven.

Now dress the ruin up with locations of interest. You don\'t need to map
out the entire place, but you do need a half-dozen or so locations
inside it that are somehow engaging to the PCs. Maybe they have monsters
in them, or loot, or gewgaws for the PCs to fiddle with, or NPCs willing
to negotiate with the intruders.

Lastly, go through and handle the paperwork for the place. Note down
combat statistics for the inhabitants. Make or scavenge a map for the
place if it\'s important, though pole-and-torch-style dungeon
exploration is rarely necessary with Godbound. Wrap it all up in a form
you can use quickly at the table, and you now have a ruin fit for the
inquisitiveness of a pantheon.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer135 .Text-Frame}
The Ruin\'s Original Purpose

Most of the time you\'ll know [why]{.CharOverride-2} you need a ruin,
but you may not know exactly what that ruin should be. Identifying the
original role of a structure makes it easier to flesh out internal
locations, choose interesting features for the PCs to encounter, and
determine what sort of inhabitants would make the most sense for the
place. Particularly large ruins might be composed of several different
sub-complexes that each have their own original identity.

Most actual ruins have been lost to their original purposes for
centuries, if not longer. Some might be strongholds of the Former
Empires, broken and abandoned in the chaos of the Last War, while others
could be relics of the modern nations. The ruin\'s hazard likely
explains why the current rulers haven\'t tried to reclaim the place,
even assuming they have the strength to do so.

Other \"ruins\" are still in current use, and might even still be
functioning according to their original purpose. In some cases, the
original inhabitants might still be there, either personally or in the
form of their many-generations-removed heirs. These functional sites are
either hidden from the world or perhaps have certain agreements with
powerful figures, buying their independence with resources, skills or
servitors that otherwise can\'t be had.

A ruin\'s original use should inform the rest of its components. When
choosing locations, think about the kind of interesting places that
should exist in a site like this one. Don\'t hesitate to adjust things
in light of nameless centuries of alternate use, but the baubles and
equipment of the original site are likely to be found here somewhere,
even if only in the treasure hoard of some ineffable horror spawned in a
former age.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer136 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  d20                     Original Purpose of the Ruin
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Covert base for spies or a rebel cell
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Fortress or military installation
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Gatehouse for a Night Road
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Magical or high-tech transport nexus
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Military base or training area
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Mine or resource extraction site
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Palace for a great official
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Part of a ruined city or town's residential area
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Prison camp for enemies
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Prison for a supernatural entity
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Refuge for survivors of the Shattering
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Resort for the elite or the wealthy
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   Sealed site of a magical disaster
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   Semi-magical manufactory
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   Survival bunker for government elite
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   Temple or monastery to worship a Made God
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   Theotechnical research site
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   Trading nexus with transit and storage
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   University or arcane school
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   Vault or treasury for some mighty relic
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer137 .Text-Frame}
Ruin Hazards

A ruin\'s hazard explains why the place hasn\'t been stripped to the
bare walls by now. Not all ruins will have a hazard, but those without
them likely have inhabitants or other defenders bent on ensuring that
their home doesn\'t become someone else\'s property. Conversely, a ruin
might have two or more hazards complicating its exploration.

A ruin\'s hazard should inform its structure, locations of importance,
and inhabitants. Tying the place\'s details into its hazard helps give a
place a sense of coherence and a particular mood, and can help a GM
provide color details by riffing on its particular omnipresent peril.

Hazard Types

[Abundant Traps:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The place is crusted over with
dangerous snares and security measures. A properly-gifted Godbound can
likely bypass most of these, but ordinary mortals aren\'t so fortunate.

[Autonomous Defenses:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin has some independent
defense system that stubbornly guards it, most likely a set of Relict
automatons. Undead or long-lived servitor creatures might serve as well.

[Crumbling Structure:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin is falling apart, and
anyone venturing into it risks bringing it down on top of their heads if
they create too much of a commotion. Floors, ceilings, and walls can go
at any time.

[Cyclical Destruction:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Every so often, something
happens to kill everything in the ruin; an energy wave, a tide of
fast-breeding super-vermin, inundation by a toxic substance, or the
like. This cycle might be triggered by intruders or something they\'re
likely to do.

[False Exterior:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin looks like something else,
either an already-picked-over tumble of stones or a friendly settlement
that hides the ruin as its secret. Secret entrances or magical ingresses
are common.

[Heritor Inhabitants:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The original occupants of the
ruin are still around, though probably in the form of a culture or even
physical shape that is no longer the same. They very rarely welcome
visitors.

[Honey Trap:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin looks like something very
appealing to intruders, like a treasure vault, friendly sanctuary, or a
library filled with valuable theurgic secrets. In actuality, it\'s a
trap to catch and murder intruders when their guard is down.

[Hostile Environment:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin is full of something
toxic or difficult to navigate, whether that\'s murky water or heavy
radiation. It might be possible to \"turn off\" this environment, or
intruders might just have to be equipped to deal with it.

[Lethal Surroundings:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin might not be so bad, but
the area around it is murderously dangerous. It might be teeming with
dangerous creatures, vicious natives, or potentially-lethal terrain.

[Lingering Curse:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin is magically blighted, and
anyone who gets too close is going to be cursed as well. Godbound might
have the Words to mitigate the curse, but lifting it will require major
effort.

[Mutated Guardians:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The original inhabitants or a past
occupant has stocked the ruin with twisted guardian creatures. Most such
creatures require something the ruin provides in order to survive,
keeping them from spreading too far afield.

[Perpetual War Zone:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Multiple factions within the ruin
are constantly fighting each other. Depending on their degree of
xenophobia, they might seek to enlist outsiders as allies, or just use
them as free rations.

[Remote Location:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin is exceedingly far away from
anything else of importance, and its entrance is probably well-hidden.
Reaching the ruin will necessitate a long trip at the least, likely
through hostile lands to an imprecise destination.

[Sealed Entrance:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin\'s entrance is bound shut by
magic or ancient technology. Most such seals are too complex and
multi-layered to be easily opened by Godbound miracles, though a
Godbound with the Journeying gift [Master of the Key]{.CharOverride-3}
likely could get it open.

[Swarm Hive:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin is teeming with a hive of some
dangerous creature. While defeating these individual entities might be
trivial to Godbound intruders, they almost always work in vast,
well-coordinated Mobs of furious defenders.

[Taboo Wardens:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin is forbidden, either by
ancient law, local custom, or the conviction of a powerful local faith.
Wardens have been appointed to guard the site against intruders.

[Temporal Lock:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin is only accessible at a
specific time, such as a particular day of the year or time of day, and
may not even exist outside the correct hour. Godbound of Time might be
able to force its entrance into synchrony.

[Titanic Beast:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Some terrible monster lairs in the
ruin, one fearsome enough to give even a Godbound pantheon a good fight.
It may have younger spawn or a mate to complicate the engagement.

[Toxic Miasma:]{.Bolded-Run-In} There\'s poison in the atmosphere of the
ruin. It may be quite subtle, with progressive Hardiness saves resisting
damage that only becomes obvious during combat, or it might produce a
more overt form of injury.

[Verticality:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin is very tall or very deep.
Intruders who can\'t fly or levitate will have a difficult time
navigating it, and it might be entirely impossible to reach flying ruins
without some means of aerial travel. Optionally, it might be so secure
the only way in is above.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer138 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ----------------------
  d20                     Ruin Hazards
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Abundant Traps
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Autonomous Defenses
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Crumbling Structure
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Cyclical Destruction
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    False Exterior
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Heritor Inhabitants
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Honey Trap
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Hostile Environment
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Lethal Surroundings
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Lingering Curse
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Mutated Guardians
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Perpetual War Zone
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   Remote Location
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   Sealed Entrance
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   Swarm Hive
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   Taboo Wardens
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   Temporal Lock
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   Titanic Beast
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   Toxic Miasma
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   Verticality
  ----------------------- ----------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer139 .Text-Frame}
Ruin Rewards

Not every ruin needs a good reason to explore it. Some ruins might be
dry holes, mere effort-sinks where the heroes dig their way through the
challenges only to find someone else plundered the place in ages past.
In most cases, however, a ruin should have a reward, or more than one if
the complex is particularly large or important.

The rewards listed here don\'t include the usual scattering of Wealth
and magical items that might be expected to be lying around a ruin or
resting in the hands of its inhabitants. The Treasure chapter of this
book details the kind of material plunder that the PCs are likely to
find in a particular site, and you can roll that up normally for later
distribution among the points of interest in the ruin. The table
adjacent is meant to address bigger treasures, the kind of material and
information rewards that are enough to draw the notice of Godbound.

These rewards do not have to be unmixed blessings. Magical artifacts can
be cursed, transport nexuses might take passengers through extremely
dangerous transit centers, and dark secrets might mark their bearer to
be killed on sight by powers that prefer their secrets remain occluded.
If a reward seems a little too straight-forward a benefit, you can
always add an extra twist of complication to its retrieval or its
possession.

Types of Rewards

[Arcane Lore:]{.Bolded-Run-In} There are one or more grimoires here
containing the details of a theurgic invocation. They might be drawn
from the examples given here in the book, or you might make up some new
spells for the PCs to discover. Alternately, it might be a cache of
instructional materials on a lost form of low magic, one that isn\'t as
potent as theurgy but might still have some effects relevant to the
ruin\'s original purpose.

[Celestial Shards:]{.Bolded-Run-In} These are needed for
artifact-crafting and the working of Impossible feats of Dominion. Their
presence implies that the ruin was either the original location of a
realm-side engine of creation or that the ruin\'s builders brought in
scavenged shards from elsewhere. One shard for every two PCs is usually
a good haul.

[Dark Secret:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin contains evidence of some
atrocity, crime, or terrible practice that has some meaningful
connection to the present-day natives of the area. The locals may not
even remember their former sins, or they may make a point of hiding
them. They might even still be ongoing, and this evidence would be all
too clear.

[Material Wealth:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The Treasure chapter contains
guidelines on how much Wealth loot a ruin of a given size and type
should have, but this ruin is an exception. You should at least double
the expected Wealth, if not more, and place it in some form that would
make sense for the ruin\'s original purpose.

[Needed Key:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The ruin\'s reward is a key of some kind.
It might be a physical key, or a passcode, or a particular magical
ritual to be performed at a particular place. Whatever it is, it\'s
needed to get into someplace important, either another ruin or a lost
treasure vault.

[Night Road:]{.Bolded-Run-In} There\'s a Night Road in the bowels of
this ruin, but unlike most Night Roads, this one can be sealed or opened
from the realm side. PCs who take control of the ruin have an easy
ingress to whatever far realm or Heavenly shard to which it might
connect.

[Powerful Artifact:]{.Bolded-Run-In} There\'s a magic item in here
powerful enough to impress even a Godbound. It might be a towering
godwalker, or it could be a major artifact built with the rules in the
Treasure chapter. It\'s possible that the artifact is somehow connected
to the functioning of the ruin, or it might have been lost here by some
former unfortunate explorer. Removing it could have consequences.

[Revealed Plot:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Somewhere in the ruin there\'s clear
evidence of a sinister plot in the outside world or an impending
catastrophe about to strike the area. This evidence is enough to warn
the PCs, but it shouldn\'t be enough to prevent the catastrophe or blow
open the plot by itself. If the PCs want to pursue the matter, the
information should give them a general lead.

[Token of Legitimacy:]{.Bolded-Run-In} There\'s a piece of regalia or a
genealogical text somewhere in the ruin that either proves the local
ruling family is illegitimate or confers that legitimacy on whoever
holds it. The token should be impressive or unusual enough to draw the
PCs\' attention, though they may not realize its importance until they
start showing it to other people or have a Godbound of Knowledge or one
with a relevant Fact examine it.

[Transport Nexus:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Fast travel in most realms is limited
to the speed of a sailing ship. Long-range teleportation magic is very
rare and potent theurgy, and even Godbound of Journeying usually have to
traverse the physical space between points. This ruin contains a
teleportation device or underground tubeway car that connects the ruin
to some distant location, probably another ruin of a similar type. The
nexus probably can\'t be re-worked to aim at a different target, though
GMs might allow it as an Impossible project.

[Useful Ally:]{.Bolded-Run-In} There\'s an entity in this ruin that
would make a useful and reliable ally to the PCs. Such a being isn\'t
just one of the inhabitants who could be talked or charmed around to
obedience, but an automaton or creature with obvious potential as a
servant. The PCs should be able to tell that the entity is a potential
ally very easily, or else habits of divine smiting might take the fore.

[Valuable Map:]{.Bolded-Run-In} There\'s a ruin or cache that nobody
knows about, but this map gives relatively clear directions to it. The
map might take the form of an actual paper map, or it could be a record
kept in the ruin, or an inference drawn from some decorative piece of
art. The map might leave out important information about the destination
site\'s defenses or nature.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer140 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     The Reward of the Ruin
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Arcane lore, theurgic invocations, or lost low magic
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Celestial shards needed for major works of Dominion
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Dark secret hidden by the locals or their heirs
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Material wealth in coins, gems, or rare substances
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Needed key to some other ruin, unlocking a vault
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Night Road entry that can be opened and closed
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Powerful artifact awaiting a worthy user.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Revealed plot or early warning of an impending disaster
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Token of legitimacy for the local ruling family
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Transport nexus allowing fast travel elsewhere
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Useful ally that can be negotiated or reactivated
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Valuable map to a treasure or to another lost ruin
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer141 .Text-Frame}
Ruin Inhabitants

The next step in stocking a ruin is to pick out its inhabitants,
including one or more [Bosses]{.CharOverride-3} for the place. A Boss is
intended to be a foe capable of giving a meaningful combat challenge to
the heroes, one appropriate to the peril of the ruin.

The difficulty of a Boss should be keyed to what is logical for the
ruin, rather than to the pantheon's overall power level. A group of
veteran Godbound should not be stumbling over powerful parasite gods in
every crumbling villa and mournful tower just because they require such
a foe to give them a good fight. Conversely, a group of novice heroes
who strut into a shard of fallen Heaven shouldn't be protected from
encountering the kind of terrible entities that lair in such places just
because they can't reasonably expect to defeat them. If you build a
consistent world with logical challenges where they ought to be, your
players will be able to make rational decisions about the kind of perils
they want to face.

Some ruins might not have a Boss. The danger of the place might be
environmental in nature, or it might require wit or negotiation rather
than sharp steel to pry out its secrets. Other ruins might have a few
dangerous occupants, but nothing that's particularly capable of
overcoming a pantheon of Godbound. It's perfectly acceptable to have
ruins that don't present a fundamentally martial challenge to the
heroes, so long as those ruins give them some other sort of difficulty
to face. A ruin with no meaningful challenge in it is something better
handled by a few minutes of narration in which you let the heroes
describe the way they handle the vastly outclassed inhabitants or
trifling obstacles that the ancient builders left behind. If you
[do]{.CharOverride-2} want a dangerous combat foe in your ruin, however,
you want to start with at least one Boss to ensure that there's
something there that can put up a decent fight.

First, decide whether you're going to have one Boss or several. Small
ruins probably only have room for one, unless they're working together
or are in a master-servant relationship. Larger ruins could have
several, each with their own territory or coexisting in a wary peace.
One might be sealed away, or located in a place inaccessible to the
other.

Next, pick the type of Boss that fits the ruin. The lists provided on
the following page give various types of inhabitants for the ruins and
cues as to appropriate Boss entities for them. In many cases, you'll
have to scale individual entities according to your needs; if the entry
says an Eldritch is appropriate for the Boss, you'll need to decide
yourself whether a lesser, greater, or master Eldritch is appropriate to
the place.

Now attach lieutenants and minions to the Boss. Most intelligent Bosses
will have at least one right-hand servant or other ally and one or more
Mobs of lesser servitors. Bestial Bosses may have mates, fellow pack
members, or swarms of spawn. It's all right if the total sum of these
perils is clearly too much for the pantheon to face at once. In such
cases, the PCs undoubtedly need to divide and conquer the inmates of the
ruin, or at least have the sense to not face them all at the same time.

Now you need to give these inhabitants a motivation and goal, as only
automatons can be expected to simply stand motionless in a ruin until
intruders arrive. Most intelligent creatures will have a reason for
being in the ruin and something they want to accomplish there, even if
it's something as simple as wanting to live in peace. Unintelligent
perils might have the place as a breeding lair, their numbers culled by
hunger or other environmental perils. The tables on the following pages
give suggestions and ideas for motivating your ruin inhabitants.

Now that you know who's there, why they're there, and what they want,
it's time to give them combat statistics. For many Bosses and their
retinues, you can simply copy the stats out of the bestiary chapter of
this book. Many Bosses will have access to particular gifts or Words, so
you'll want to take a moment to note down some ideas for their miracles
or powers in combat using the tools in the bestiary chapter. A short
stack of 3x5 cards is handy for this purpose, and when a foe is killed
you can keep the card to recycle it later as a different monster with
reskinned abilities.

Once you've got your monstrous perils identified and statted out, you
can set them aside and go on with creating your ruin. You\'ll want to
establish some locations of interest in the ruin and get a general idea
of its layout before you plant its occupants. Arrange them logically,
keeping in mind the needs and interests of the creatures. Most Bosses
will keep their lieutenants close at hand, either out of prudence or out
of a need to keep an eye on ambitious underlings.

Once you have a basic set of locations decided, start placing the
inhabitants or adding additional locations to serve as lairs, living
quarters, or hunting grounds for the creatures. While the spatial
relationship between areas is meant to be somewhat abstract, keep in
mind the closeness of allied groups. If the pantheon starts a fight in
one chamber and the rest of the inhabitants are close enough to hear,
the situation may escalate drastically in just a few rounds.

Also remember that most powerful, intelligent Bosses will have their
lieutenants or bodyguards close enough to come to their aid in an
emergency. Some ruins might be so comfortable and secure that their
masters might not worry about such things, but most unspeakable denizens
of long-lost subterranean complexes have a more vigorous appreciation of
danger. Part of the challenge of overcoming a Boss might be preventing
him from calling for overwhelming help.

When placing Mobs, note that some of them might occupy multiple areas
within a ruin. A Small Mob usually only fills one room, but a Large Mob
might extend over several adjacent areas, and a Vast Mob might swarm an
entire section of the ruin. Alerting any of its members will bring the
rest running, so heroes who don't want to find themselves facing such a
tide of peril are going to have to rely on stealth rather than brute
force, or else take out a room's worth of the enemies faster than they
can call for help.

With the inhabitants placed, now\'s a good time to salt down the ruin
with the treasures you\'ve rolled or selected from the Treasure chapter.
Most loot will have been collected by the inhabitants, assuming they
value such things, and artifacts are likely to be held and used by
powerful entities. Treasure that hasn\'t already been collected is
likely either hidden, so large and durable as to be impractical to loot,
or too dangerous to handle. Some artifacts in particular might be so
toxic to mortal wielders that the inhabitants don\'t dare handle them.

One point to remember is to not place every treasure or artifact
directly in the hands of the locals. If the only way to acquire loot is
to murder the person holding it, you\'ll tend to teach the PCs to ignore
non-violent means of obtaining the pelf. Stealth and trickery become
mere supplements to a good stabbing, rather than alternate ways to
snaffle the gold, and Godbound of Deception or other sneaky Words can
find their abilities devalued.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer142 .Text-Frame}
Inhabitant Groups

While it\'s possible to stock your ruin with a scattering of unrelated
entities, in most cases a place will be occupied by one or more
inhabitant groups. These collections of creatures will be those that fit
together, either by nature or by plausible circumstance. Small ruins
likely only have one group, while larger ones might have two or more,
perhaps more hostile to each other than to potentially-useful intruders.

The groups listed below offer some suggestions as to their constituent
members. Lesser foes usually appear in Mobs as described in the bestiary
chapter, while major enemies can serve as Bosses for a ruin or as
enemies so powerful that they become natural hazards to be avoided by
the heroes. Not everything in a ruin has to be plausibly defeatable by
the PCs, and sometimes the excitement lies in parley or flight rather
than victorious battle.

Ruin Inhabitants

[Angelic Cult:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Angelic Regent with Large Mob of human
cultists. Possibly Lesser Eldritch high priest and a Titanic Beast
guard-creature

[Automaton Defenses:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Small Mob of Automaton Guardians,
possibly with individual major automatons with Titanic Beast or Twisted
Ogre statistics

[Bandit Chief:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Minor or Major Hero with a Skilled Mage
lieutenant, a Large Mob of rabble and a Small Mob of veteran bandits

[Exiled Noble:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Minor or Major Hero with a Small Mob of
supporters, a Skilled Mage advisor, and one supernatural creature as the
mage's familiar

[Heavenly Shard:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Small Mobs of Angelic Ravagers or
Angelic Guardians, possibly a Large Mob of Timeworn Survivors or a
Hulking Abomination. In the worst case, a Made God is trapped in it.

[Hellish Labyrinth:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Large Mobs of Angelic Guardians,
one or more Titanic Beasts, Vast Mob of enslaved dead, possibly an
Uncreated interloper. An Angelic Tyrant might rule major sites.

[Intelligent Misbegotten Lair:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Twisted Ogre served by a
Large Mob of minor Misbegotten, possibly with a tamed Titanic Beast or
Lesser Eldritch sorcerer

[Military Base:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Minor or Major Hero with Vast Mob of
soldiers, possibly other Hero lieutenants or Skilled Mage support

[Monstrous Beast Lair:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Titanic Beast, possibly with a
Small Mob of weaker offspring or packmates, or possibly a Hulking
Abomination instead. Might have numerous dangerous vermin-prey around.

[Night Road Beachhead:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Large Mob of Timeworn Survivors
led by an Eldritch, or else a Small Mob of Stalking Horrors led by a
Hulking Abomination

[Noble\'s Household:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Minor or Major Hero with a Skilled
Mage advisor, a Small Mob of guards, and possibly one or more other
Heroes in their pay

[Parasite God Cult:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Parasite God with Lesser Eldritch
high priest, Large Mob of civilian worshipers, and Small Mob of trained
warrior-zealots

[Reclusive Archmage:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Eldritch with one or more Skilled
Mage apprentices, one or more Hulking Abomination or Titanic Beast
guards or familiars

[Relict Population:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Small Mob of Automaton Guardians or
Large Mob of Timeworn Survivors. Probably an Eldritch or Major Hero
leader for the relicts.

[Sorcerous Cabal:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Several Lesser Eldritch or Skilled
Mage cabal-mates with a Small Mob of servitors and possible Angelic
Regent patron

[Swarm Hive:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Vast Mob of lesser Misbegotten or Timeworn
Survivors, possibly with Titanic Beast or Hulking Abomination "queen" or
"alpha"

[Temple Hierarchy:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Eldritch high priest with Skilled
Mage underpriests and Large Mob of temple zealots

[Trapped Made God:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Made God with Eldritch high priest,
Large Mob of worshipers and theotechnicians trapped there with it

[Uncreated Cyst:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Hulking Abomination with Large Mob of
lesser Uncreated and several Stalking Horror minions. Possible Eldritch
slave-sorcerer

[Uncreated Invader:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Parasite God-equivalent Uncreated
master with one or more Eldritch lieutenants and a Large or Vast Mob of
lesser Uncreated. Don\'t forget the Uncreated\'s special abilities.

[Undead Ruler:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Eldritch lich-lord or Dried Lord undead
warlord with Vast Mob of servitors. Has several war-draugr or priest
equivalent minions in its service
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer143 .Sidebar}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker334}Traps
and Snares

It can be difficult to make a trap that\'s meaningful enough to hinder a
Godbound. Poison needles, falling stone blocks, and spring-blades might
be hazardous enough to mortal victims, but the Godbound is likely to
suffer nothing worse than a hit point or two of damage and maybe a
day-long Effort Commitment if they fail a poison save.

Any trap fearsome enough to concern a Godbound is likely either a Former
Empire deathtrap built to take out even the demi-divine servants of a
Made God or assailants from the angelic Host, or else it\'s not actually
a [trap]{.CharOverride-2} so much as it is a lethal environment. The
latter can just be a zone of damage inflicted per minute or hour.

In the former case, pick a Word or two to describe the basic way in
which it works; a molten lava trap might involve Fire and Earth, while
an electrified floor might be Sky. Godbound with the appropriate Words
can defensively dispel the trap, or might be immune to its effects due
to their natural qualities.

Next, pick a damage rating. Gotcha-traps that trigger on intruders and
function by surprise should do about 10d6 damage, with particularly
nasty versions doing d8, d10, or even d12 dice. This might be enough to
knock down a novice Godbound or significantly damage a more experienced
hero. Heroes who are immune to surprise might detect the trap early, as
might those who have Words related to its power as they sense the
impending force.

Traps that are obvious and that the PCs clearly have a choice in
triggering, like the blatant defensive wards around some ancient relic,
should do straight damage starting around 2d6 and up to 10d6 for a
tremendously powerful defense. There should be a way to deactivate these
traps, and sufficient clues for the PCs to find it.

Saving throws against a trap might spare the victim from damage
altogether, or halve the ensuing pain. Such saves should generally be
reserved for gotcha-traps. Obvious ones must be deactivated.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer144 .Text-Frame}
Inhabitant Details

Knowing the general type of the inhabitants isn\'t enough. You also need
to know some facts about the group in order to place them sensibly in
the ruin and determine what it is they\'re trying to accomplish there.
Not all groups will be uniformly hostile to outsiders, and not all of
them will be single-minded in their reaction to the PCs. The tables here
offer some details and complications which you can use to inform the
inhabitant groups you create.

Unintelligent or wholly alien creatures might not use these tables, but
you should still have a general idea of what the creatures are trying to
accomplish in the ruin. In the absence of a shared goal, it can be all
too easy to just randomly spread the inhabitants through the area\'s
locations and call it good. It makes for a better and more realistic
site if the inhabitants have perceptible reasons for being in their
places.

You can use some or all of these creatures to flavor an inhabitant
group. If you have more than one in a ruin, you should take this
opportunity to decide how they feel about each other, and whether or not
they can tolerate their neighbors. Clever PCs might find ways to exploit
these differences to get at their goal.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer145 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
  d12                     Internal Problems                            Recent Events                                External Relationships
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A rebel lieutenant is causing turmoil        Rivals stole something they need badly       A conviction of rightful rule of the ruin
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Food supplies or vital necessities run low   Some have splintered into a rival group      Assiduously isolationist toward others
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Morale is miserably low of late              The leadership changed drastically           Avid recruiters of outsiders to the group
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    One of them is a secret traitor              They broke a thing that\'s getting worse     Ferocious hostility toward all others
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    The leader is a very powerful fool           They got a new magical resource or ally      Mercenaries for hire by other groups
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    The leader is losing the faith of the rest   They moved to a new part of the ruin         Nursing bitter grudges against outsiders
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    They can\'t agree on a threat response       They opened up a sealed ruin section         Others are food or supplies on the hoof
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    They misunderstand a local danger            They received some new recruits              Paranoid fear of other groups
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    They\'re fighting over a thing they found    They restored the ruin\'s original purpose   Pragmatic and willing to negotiate
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'re on a time-sensitive mission         They unearthed a useful treasure             Relentlessly treacherous double-dealers
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'re suffering from a dire disease       They unleashed something unfortunate         Ruthless aggression when it\'s feasible
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'ve splintered into hostile factions    They were beaten by neighboring rivals       Wary but very reliable allies if enlisted
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer146 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  d12                     Their Overall Goal                          Their Leadership Type                     Defensive Measures
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Carry out an ancient inherited duty         A figurehead leader for a secret master   They activate an environmental hazard
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Control the ruin\'s reward for their ends   A leader and a few trusted lieutenants    They have a magical ward in place
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Fortify it as a base for future conquest    A leader rules with advice from others    They have a summoned guard entity
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Hide from a more powerful enemy             A single leader rules without dispute     They have an alliance with neighbors
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Hold it against an incoming enemy           Anarchic, with no visible leadership      They have extensive sentinels posts
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Just eke out an existence in semi-safety    Churning, leaders changing rapidly        They have rigidly-disciplined guards
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Loot the place down to the floorboards      Democratic with an executive figure       They have secret transit paths for troops
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Purge all rivals from the ruin              Groups, each having their own leader      They keep guard beasts in critical locales
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Revive the ruin\'s original purpose         Mission-oriented toward a shared duty     They\'ve made excellent ambush zones
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Seize the ruin for a master or employer     Obedient to a distant employer or ruler   They\'ve physically walled up passages
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Study the ruin for further arcane power     Theocratic, under a religious chief       They\'ve set alarms and noisemakers
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Unearth a treasure hidden there             Two or more entities working together     They\'ve set traps in little-used areas
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer147 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     How Did They End Up Here?
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A leader promised them something glorious here
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Religious causes incited them to come here
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    The recently sought refuge here
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Their ancestors seized the place as a sanctuary
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    They arrived from a far realm through a Night Road
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    They arrived here not long ago in search of riches
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    They conquered the original inhabitants and stayed
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    They were created or born here
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    They were driven here by pursuing enemies
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   They were sent here by their superiors
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   They were slaves or servants who broke free
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'re heirs to the retinue of an ancient discoverer
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer148 .Text-Frame}
Ruin Locations

Now generate at least a half-dozen locations of note inside your ruin.
The table to the right gives some basic ideas, which you can modify to
fit the ruin\'s original purpose. At least one of the locations should
be focused on that purpose, to help give the place its proper tone.

The other tables below let you add flavor to that basic location. If you
decide to put part of the ruin\'s treasure in the room, you can use the
\"Valuables Here\" table to complicate its placement. The locations\'
general mood cues you on how you might decorate and describe the place,
while its entrance or exit can be dressed up by the next table.

The lowest three tables provide examples of some different sorts of
perils that can relate to the location\'s physical condition, the status
of any hostile occupants you place there, or any magical peril likely
related to the site\'s original function or to decay or damage caused
since it stopped operating.

Not every location needs all of these things. Indeed, about a quarter of
your locations should be empty and largely devoid of anything important.
For the rest, use these tables to prompt your own creativity as your
situation recommends.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer149 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------
  d12                     Physical Peril                              Occupant Peril                              Magical Peril
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A closed door is trapped or load-bearing    A hidden sentinel watches the area          Alarm when magic is sensed here
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Alarming noise made if a thing\'s handled   Their champion or leader lairs here         Animated objects or automaton pieces
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Crumbling floors, ceilings, or walls        Their mates and offspring are here          Broken artifact explodes if handled
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Dangerous flames or energy discharges       There are a whole lot of them here          Curse on those who handle something
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Heavy object topples if touched at all      They have a superb tactical position here   Effort-draining field or artifact
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Noxious or toxic pools, fungi, or flora     They have allies posted here                Empyrean ward, as per Treasure chapter
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Opening a container releases a bad thing    They rush in as a swarm on an alarm         Environment like a hostile gift effect
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Poisonous or explosive miasma here          They\'ve arranged a trap for intruders      Low magic ward or trap in place
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Site\'s original function gone berserk      They\'ve set guard beasts to lair here      Magical counterstrike on gift use
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Slippery or treacherous footing             They\'ve set up a fixed but deadly weapon   Magical disease from an object
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Time-delayed danger triggered on entry      They\'ve set up an ambush in the area       Subtly curse target or their possessions
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Treasure is dangerous or a trap trigger     This is a sacred place to them              Transform target or possessions
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer150 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
  d12                     Valuables Here                           Location\'s General Mood                  Ingress or Egress Problems
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Bait, to distract from a greater prize   Bloody, the site of awful violence        The way is behind heavy rubble
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Broken or scattered in fragments         Brilliant with lights or high windows     The way is concealed behind something
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Hidden under or in furnishings here      Cozy, with signs of recent occupation     The way is dark, and light draws peril
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Left out in the open, untouched          Crackling with energy, motion, or sound   The way is false, and leads to peril
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Locked away in a visible container       Crumbling, its contents falling apart     The way is heavily fortified by occupants
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Mixed with detritus or trash             Dark, lamps and windows darkened          The way is locked or barred
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Part of the furnishings or equipment     Defaced and spoilt by occupants           The way is opened elsewhere in the ruin
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Placed with valueless similar objects    Graveyard, full of old yellowed death     The way is prone to collapse at any time
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Precariously placed, risking damage      Kept in unusually good condition          The way is trapped by the occupants
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Repurposed for a mundane end here        Lonely, desolate and unvisited            The way leads through lethal terrain
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Ridiculously well-concealed              Patched, half-fixed by its occupants      The way leads to an awkward vantage
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Unobtrusive but not really hidden        Reeking with decay and corruption         The way requires climbing or flight
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer151 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Basic Purpose of the Location
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Archive, library, scriptorium, record-keeping for the site
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Assembly area, plaza, audience chamber, merchant shop
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Command area, site controls, leader\'s quarters
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Dining hall, hydroponic garden, food processing
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Function area for the site\'s original purpose
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Maintenance shop, janitorial area, reprocessing zone
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Manufactory area, industrial workplace, artisan\'s shop
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Passage between locations, storage area, or vault
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Recreation or artistic area, tavern, gallery, private bower
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Sleeping or residential quarters for the inhabitants
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Temple or chapel to a Made God or latter deity
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Training area, classroom, practice field, auditorium
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer152 .Text-Frame}
Location Features

The basic purpose of a location can inform a GM about much of its decor,
furnishings, and assorted gewgaws, but sometimes a more interesting
feature is needed. This might be a set of magical pools, an enchanted
statue, a sorceled tapestry, a mysterious engine, or some other object
of interest to the PCs, one they can manipulate and fiddle with in the
fashion much beloved of players.

The tables here suggest the basic form of the feature, whether it\'s a
movable object or a fixture of the location, and some different tables
to suggest ways in which it is unusual. Most features need only one or
two rolls on the tables below, though particularly complicated ones
might have several, with their effects or uses triggered by the way in
which the PCs manipulate the feature.

Particularly large features might involve themselves in the combat
routines of the inhabitants of the location. You might take a moment to
adjust the creatures\' tactics table, adding an entry to remind yourself
to have them use the feature in a particular way. Particularly cunning
inhabitants might have altered the feature to serve one of their mundane
needs, or to be a more perfect weapon against intruders.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer153 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
  d12                     Functional Component                            Visual Style                            Large Features In Combat
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    It allows communication to other places         Bloodstained as if used as a weapon     Enemies hide in or behind it when alert
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    It controls the ruin\'s defenses                Emblazoned with creator\'s insignia     If broken, it causes a disaster elsewhere
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    It controls water, heat, or other utilities     Featureless, highly-polished surfaces   If hit, a timer starts to an explosion
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    It does a thing related to the ruin\'s origin   Glowing circuit-like streaks of light   If hit, it will explode or release toxins
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    It gives views of a ruin location               Harsh geometrical angles                It amplifies the inhabitants\' abilities
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    It holds up the location\'s walls               Humming, chiming, or other sounds       It changes shape or contours if active
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    It opens or closes a door or vault              Intricate knotwork and twisted lines    It moves during combat and can crush
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    It provides light or heat                       Naturalistic images or colors to it     It projects energy when active
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    It reveals something hidden in the ruin         Pockmarked and decaying texture         It\'s an extremely sturdy piece of cover
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   It summons occupants to the area                Rusted or verdigrised surface           Locals can make it spew toxic substances
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   It triggers a self-destruct sequence            Smooth, flowing curves and lines        Locals know how to use it for a weapon
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   It\'s a conduit for the ruin\'s energy          Unusually hot or cold surface           When active, it\'s a terrain hazard
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer154 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  d12                     Unusual Value It Has                         Danger Related to It                          Useful Information It Gives
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Dwellers nearby love these things            Enemies can track your location with it       A map of the ruin, more or less precise
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    It bypasses the ruin\'s security somehow     It activates nearby ruin security             A weakness of a boss foe in the ruin
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    It harms dangerous local entities            It attracts a particular beast or entity      Clues to the occupants\' current goal
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    It has a strange but useful property         It benefits fail at the worst possible time   Data on the ruin\'s reward
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    It has magnificent workmanship               It carries a disease or infectious curse      Hints about current ruin occupants
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    It has splendid artistic novelty to it       It makes enemy attacks more effective         Historically important records or data
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    It produces some useful good or service      It seems harmless but later turns deadly      Information on a secret location or door
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    It protects against a hazard of the place    It\'s hard to get rid of once taken up        Information on a trap or dangerous area
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    It restores some of the ruin\'s function     It\'s prone to exploding or melting down      Information on the ruin\'s hazard
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   It\'s a key to entering a part of the ruin   It\'s radioactive or exudes evil magic        Operation of the ruin\'s original function
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   It\'s impervious to most forms of harm       Locals consider it taboo to handle            Passcodes for entering restricted areas
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   It\'s made of a precious material            Using or handling it drains the subject       The use or perils of a different feature
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer155 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Basic Form of the Feature
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Art object, painting, sculpture, mosaic, or other decor
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Book, records, reports, shelf of documents, or recording
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Corpse, battle wreckage, site of some accident or trap
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Door, archway, portal, or other ingress or egress
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Fountain, pool, stream, or other liquid feature
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Icon, religious idol, relic of a Made God, or the like
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Machinery related to the location, magical or mundane
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Monument, grave, crypt, trophy, memorial inscription
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Part of the location\'s normal furniture or fittings
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Vehicle, transport sled, wagon, riding harness
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Window or viewscreen, monitoring station, scrying ball
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   One of the above, but broken and no longer useful
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer156 .Text-Frame}
Night Roads

The Night Roads are the connections between the scattered realms of the
former world, the broken shards of Heaven, and the smoldering pits of
Hell. Some were fabricated intentionally by the Former Empires as roads
to reach their enemies while others precipitate naturally out of the
void of Unending Night. They most commonly pierce the skin of a realm in
lonely or desolate places. The deepest pits of an ancient ruin or the
most remote glade in a brooding forest might serve as the mouth to a
Night Road, and strangers would do well to stay away.

The road entrances appear in many shapes. Some are obvious magical
portals, while others are hollow arches, sinister doors, or simply a
particular location in a seemingly-unremarkable chamber. Most Night
Roads have some sort of seal that can be opened from either side of the
gate. Ancient theurges forged most of these seals to keep out the
occasional invader from a distant realm or Uncreated Night, but time and
evil purposes have eroded many of these ancient wards. The table below
offers some potential means to open or close a Night Road\'s seal,
though powerful theurgic invocations can force open or bind shut the
ways without such complications.

The roads themselves appear in many forms to those who travel them.
Broad ribbons of pale stone reaching through the silent, bottomless void
of Unending Night are the most common variety, though others have been
found as dark flowing rivers or paths through a featureless desolation.
For travelers on foot, it usually takes anywhere from a week to several
months to walk the length of a Night Road. The size of the gates rarely
allow large vehicles to pass, though most have enough room for a horse,
if such creatures can be kept from panicking at the road\'s alien
environment.

Not all Night Roads connect only two points. Some branch or form
crossroads in the void, while others form occult mazes of paths that
require special knowledge to navigate successfully. Several Night Road
entrances might open on the same stretch of pathway, allowing for
highways and thoroughfares through the bottomless darkness. Such major
arteries were usually of great importance in the days of the Former
Empires and most of them had some form of defenses or inhabitants to
secure them against rivals. Some gates might be hidden along these ways,
invisible without the right key or knowledge.

\"Wayhouses\" are sometimes found along the road, structures built by
ancient civilizations to provide some necessary refuge or service along
the road. The table here provides some suggestions for the purpose of
the wayhouse, which you can build out as a standard ruin location if it
seems interesting. These wayhouses are usually abandoned by anything
save unliving or automated inhabitants, but a few are still populated by
refugees, hermits, or cultists. Inhabitable wayhouses usually have some
means of providing food, water, and other necessities to the
inhabitants, save for those who survive by raiding out of the Night Road
and retreating back in with their plunder. Such ravagers sometimes
require the special environment of the wayhouse to survive, or fear the
realm on the other side too much to permanently relocate there.

The Night Roads are perilous to wayfarers. Aside from whatever fauna
might still live in the wayhouses or what defenses might exist at the
far end of the road, creatures of Uncreated Night can sometimes evade
the structure\'s wards and turn them into paths for the invasion of
other realms. Creatures hurled off the road and into the Uncreated Night
will drift forever unless caught and pulled back onto the relative
safety of the road. Creatures that can fly can return under their own
power, but to lose sight of the road is certain doom even for them.

As the GM, Night Roads provide a convenient explanation for surreal
ruins and otherwise-inexplicable monstrosities; they can always be the
result of a nearby Night Road that may or may not be open still. Night
Roads also provide easy access to alternate realms or celestial
shard-rich fragments of Heaven.

While Night Roads may not be easy to find or open, you should be ready
for the pantheon to start seeking them out eventually. Most groups will
want to get to the shards of Heaven sooner or later, either to repair
some crucial celestial engine, salvage precious celestial shards, or
enact the rituals of divine supremacy. Other groups will want to seek
out particular realms as suitable sites for a future paradise, or delve
into the smoking circles of Hell to rescue a waylaid soul. It\'s not
your job to make such journeys [easy]{.CharOverride-2} or to hand them a
conveniently suitable Night Road as soon as they conceive the desire,
but you should be ready to provide directions and possibilities for
pantheons that put in the effort to find such a way.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer157 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Night Road Wayhouses
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    [Bridgehouse]{.CharOverride-7}, to raise and lower a barrier or drawbridge
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    [Citadel]{.CharOverride-7}, preventing enemies from passing
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    [Crossroad]{.CharOverride-7}, where two or more Roads connect
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    [Garden]{.CharOverride-7}, full of sustenance and ease
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    [Monument]{.CharOverride-7}, to a realm\'s glory and might
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    [Prison]{.CharOverride-7}, holding something between worlds
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    [Refuge]{.CharOverride-7}, established by exiles or escapees
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    [Ruin]{.CharOverride-7}, its original purpose spoiled and broken
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    [Seal]{.CharOverride-7}, to contain an incursion of Uncreated Night
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   [Tomb]{.CharOverride-7}, to hold a corpse forever along the Road
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   [Villa]{.CharOverride-7}, gracefully overlooking Uncreated Night
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   One thing that became another, which it is now
  ----------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer158 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Night Road Seals
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    [Arcane]{.CharOverride-7}. A sorcerer can open it with simple rituals.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    [Engine]{.CharOverride-7}. A large device must be powered to open it.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    [Incantation]{.CharOverride-7}. A special phrase or password opens it.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    [Key]{.CharOverride-7}. A particular magical artifact can open it.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    [Lineage]{.CharOverride-7}. Only a certain bloodline can open it.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    [Open]{.CharOverride-7}. It has no seal at all.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    [Physical]{.CharOverride-7}. Material doors or barriers are before it.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    [Price]{.CharOverride-7}. Some curse or loss is suffered to open it.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    [Ritual]{.CharOverride-7}. Some hideous reality-defying rite is needed.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   [Sacrifice]{.CharOverride-7}. It takes blood or treasure to open it.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   [Temporal]{.CharOverride-7}. It only opens at certain times.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   [Wards]{.CharOverride-7}. Magical wards must be dropped to use it.
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer159 .Text-Frame}
Shards of Heaven

The shards of broken Heaven exist in countless shapes and sizes,
drifting through the void of Uncreated Night. Some are small as a common
dwelling, while others rival the size of entire realms, yet each of them
is a place of primal wonder and an alien domain of unfathomable purpose
and perfection. The ages of war that broken the celestial realm have
left their mark, however, and every shard is scarred in its own way.

Every shard is built around one or more celestial engines, as described
in the Treasure chapter. This engine is usually hidden or difficult to
reach, as all the easily-looted workings have already been stripped.
When building locations for the shard, ensure that the place where the
engine is remains hard to get at, either from environmental hazards,
hostile inhabitants, or intentional traps set in a former age. If the
engine is still functional and supporting an existing realm, moral PCs
may have qualms about causing disasters with their looting.

Creatures are often found in the Heavenly shards, usually refugees or
looters who arrived through a Night Road and cannot or will not go back.
Some shards retain enough of an ecology to support these castaways,
while other groups require no such nourishment. Angels are also often
found in Heaven, wrecking parties sent up from Hell to further despoil
their former home.

To create the shard, use the basic terrain table below to get a general
idea of the shard\'s theme. Pick or roll a magnificence to give the
place some overwhelming characteristic to influence your description of
the shard, and choose an element of decay that has set in since Heaven
was broken. The occupant table gives ideas for what kind of creatures
might be dwelling in the shard, and their original purpose can help you
decide how they might deal with the sudden arrival of intruders.

Shards of Heaven are [dangerous]{.CharOverride-2}, even to Godbound. The
angelic prowlers, perilously-damaged celestial engines, and demi-divine
interlopers who\'ve set up in these shards since the Former Empires fell
are enough to make even Godbound heroes sweat. An expedition into these
forbidden places should leave the players keenly aware of their peril.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer160 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
  d12                     Basic Heavenly Surroundings                   Its Magnificence                            Its Decay
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    City, strange streets and white jade stones   Artistry, everything masterfully made       Broken, damaged by great forces
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Dungeon, beauty made evil by angels           Creation, things made constantly            Dark, light clouded and gloomy
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Forest of primal wildness                     Intricacy, everything impossibly baroque    Death, full of corpses and the slain
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Forge, impossibly vast and clanging           Knowledge, script and secrets all over      Defiled, mortal wreckage left behind
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Garden with tremendous beasts                 Light, impossibly clear and illuminating    Diseased, a pox or poison within
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Library, with secrets of long-dead realms     Motion, a wild dance of swift movement      Feral, gone savage and murderous
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Machine, vast, its rooms in broken places     Passion, wild feelings welling up easily    Intermittence, the glory skipping time
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Monuments to angels and strange things        Peace, contentment surrounding all          Leaking, letting in the Uncreated
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Palace, endless, pale and mazey               Silence, all sound swallowed away           Rot, fragments decaying and purulent
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Sea, golden with diluted suns                 Size, everything built for giants           Treacherous, harming the careless
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Ship, becalmed in sea or sky forever          Song, celestial music suffusing all         Warped, images turned dark and vile
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Tower, without base or top                    Value, gold and jewels for brick and clay   Withered, life gone dry and brittle
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer161 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Its Latest Occupants                                         What They Wanted Here
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A hunting pack of bitter angels                              They lost something here that they must recover before leaving
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A dead Made God\'s trapped clergy and theotechnicians        They think an arcane secret they want is hidden here
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A mighty theurge and their retinue                           They\'re exiles, seeking a refuge and revenge
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    A parasite god and their clergy who found a way here         They\'re explorers, seeking out new roads through the heavens
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Artificial life created by the theurges or Made God clergy   They\'re hiding from something worse than they are
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Automatons meant for celestial defense, now self-willed      They\'re hunting an enemy of theirs who fled here
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Native beasts or creatures of Heaven, left alone here        They\'re looking for treasures of any useful kind to bring back
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Refugees from a dead realm who came here by Night Road       They\'re on a pilgrimage or religious journey of some sort
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Scavenging mortal heroes of a distant realm                  They\'re seeking shards from the celestial engines
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Undead revenants of a human party trapped here long ago      They\'re servitors of a greater power sent to retrieve a thing
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Wretched misfortunates who wandered in by Night Road         They\'re trapped, and trying desperately to escape
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Two or more parties, allied or bitter enemies                They\'re trying to make the place into a sanctuary for their own
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer162 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor131}Creating
Challenges

This section is meant to help the GM determine the kind of challenges
that might face a group of PCs who find themselves in a complicated
situation. You can use these suggestions as part of adventure creation,
or as quick challenges to complicate the achievement of Influence or
Dominion changes as described on page
[[130]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor124).

If you use them for that end, first decide whether the PCs' ambitions
even merit a challenge in the first place. Plausible feats with a x1
difficulty modifier rarely require a challenge. The PCs just commit the
Influence or spend the Dominion and it happens, because it's just not a
particularly difficult feat for demigods. A challenge might be required
if they were attempting to impose this change over a particularly large
area, however, such as a region larger than a city.

Improbable changes with a x2 difficulty modifier sometimes require a
challenge. Anything that affects more than a city worth of people
probably takes a challenge to execute, and repeated difficult changes of
a village or town might also require a challenge as the locals start to
get shell-shocked by the drastic alterations in their community. More
than one challenge might be needed if the area affected is particularly
large or the change is exceptionally pronounced.

Impossible changes with a x4 difficulty modifier almost always require a
challenge. Sometimes the PCs can avoid this for very small-scale
impossibilities, but violating the laws of physical or political reality
is otherwise going to take some serious work by the PCs. Any changes to
areas larger than that of a city will certainly require multiple
challenges, and very large-scale or dramatic changes may require a
half-dozen whole game sessions revolving around overcoming subsidiary
difficulties on the way to success.

Once you know how many challenges a particular change needs, roll or
pick from the table adjacent to identify their general nature. Sometimes
this will be obvious, such as when the PCs want to persuade a city's
ruling council to outlaw slavery within its walls. Other times, you
might roll randomly. You might find that while the city council doesn't
mind outlawing slavery, there's a curse on the city that will bring
plague if a slave is not regularly sacrificed on a particular remote
temple's altar. The challenge for the PCs then becomes a test of lifting
the curse before the council can provide the cooperation they need.

With the kind of challenge chosen, you can then look under the
appropriate table to get a dozen different suggestions for complicating
the situation. Some of these will require more elaboration than others.
Dealing with a royal council might require some development with the
Court tools in this chapter, while fleshing out a ruin for exploration
and clearing could oblige reference to the Ruin tools.

Most of the time, Influence or Dominion challenges like these are meant
to fill only part of an evening's play. If you need to conjure one up on
short notice, such as when the players suddenly decide to work a major
change on the area in response to another situation, don't feel
obligated to flesh it out too heavily.

In the same vein, don't worry about coming up with solutions, either.
The PCs are demigods. They have the power to conjure arbitrary miracles,
wield unimaginable powers, and withstand perils that would kill half a
legion in a heartbeat. It's [their]{.CharOverride-2} job to figure out
how to penetrate the Doorless House and steal the Unbeating Heart in
order to bribe the lich-lord to lift his curse on their homeland.

If the group absolutely dead-ends on a challenge and starts floundering
in confusion, be ready to give them an alternate route. Don't hesitate
to charge them greater costs or harder consequences, though.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer163 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Building a Structure
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A similar nearby institution is a jealous rival of the idea.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Critical artisans are only found in a hostile community.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    The local ruler mistrusts the project as a threat to them.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    The local ruler tries to squeeze the PCs for their aid.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    The locals are too distracted by a beast or peril to build.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    The locals try to repurpose the place for their ends.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    The locals mistrust the idea and need to be bribed.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The only good site is held by unhelpful or enemy locals.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The only good site is occupied by a ruin or lair.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The structure requires great supplies of a scarce good.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The structure upsets a supernatural being or wakes one.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   There\'s a saboteur ring funded by outside enemies.
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer164 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  d10                     Kinds of Challenges
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Building a structure or institution in a community.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Changing a custom or law displeasing to the PCs.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Clearing a ruin or other place of danger nearby.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Convincing someone in authority to help the PCs.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Finding a thing critical to the PCs' goals.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Killing a monster or other powerful, dangerous entity.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Rallying a group that is demoralized or squabbling.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Resolving a conflict between people or groups.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Sneaking into or stealing from a well-protected place.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Undoing an enchantment, curse, or blight on a place.
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer165 .Single-Column}
Building a Structure

The PCs are trying to build a community-changing structure or
institution in the area, and local factors may make that harder than
they expected. These challenges aren't meant for minor constructions,
such as a fine villa or a wooden palisade around the village, but are
instead for big, imposing efforts that are going to make a major
difference in the life of the associated community.

Towering stone walls, budding universities of enlightened knowledge,
splendid temples for a Godbound's cult, or luminous palaces worthy of a
god-king all qualify as such structures. It gets particularly complex if
these are raised far away from usual sources of supply.

Actually building the physical edifice is often the easiest part of such
an undertaking. More difficult by far is finding the right people to run
it and forming a [modus vivendi]{.CharOverride-2} with the community
that will allow it to operate in peace. Other institutions might need
substantial resources just to keep operating and require the special
cooperation of those people in the community that can provide these
resources.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer166 .Single-Column}
Changing a Custom

Slavery, child marriage, customs of ruthless raiding, old hatreds of
class and caste, or an annoying habit of putting cilantro in everything
might all be customs the PCs wish to extirpate from a community. The
bigger the area to be corrected, the harder the feat; convincing the
villagers of a single hamlet to give up slavery is a far easier task
than banishing it from the customs of a nation.

Customs exist for a reason, and any change of a serious, important life
habit among the people is going to find resistance. Someone is profiting
by the custom, or it may be the custom is crucial to maintaining a
society's prosperity. The raiders of the Ulstang Skerries are merciless
pillagers of the northern coast, but if all their ships turned peaceful
tomorrow their rocky islands would starve within the year. Any hero who
wishes to wean them off bloody plunder will have to provide a solution
to their hunger as well as their pride in war.

When picking challenges for changing a custom, identify who or what is
profiting by it, and then oblige the heroes to find some way of
placating or eliminating those people or satisfying the need that the
custom is supporting.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer167 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Clearing a Ruin
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Clearing the ruin will release a supernatural power.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Local rulers claim control of the ruin and its loot.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Powerful robbers lie in wait to plunder those who visit.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    The apparent ruin is only part of it; most of it is hidden.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    The locals are terrified that the PCs will stir up trouble.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    The ruin caps a Night Road that is a danger if unsealed.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    The ruin curses those who enter it with a divine blight.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The ruin is contaminated with toxic sorcery or waste.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The ruin is in the disputed territory of a touchy ruler.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The ruin is only accessible after special secret acts.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The ruin is sacred or taboo to nearby communities.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   The ruin is the delicate linchpin of a vital local structure.
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer168 .Single-Column}
Convincing Someone

Convincing an important NPC of something can be an exercise as simple as
using a gift of Command or Deception. Sometimes, it really is that
simple; if the request is unremarkable, no one around the person objects
to it, and extended cooperation is not needed, then a simple tweak of a
subject's will can get the job done.

These challenges are for situations when it's not that easy. Maybe the
request is extreme, and even if the important person's will is suborned
their underlings and assistants will fight against it. Maybe the subject
is struggling with other problems right now, and if they move to help
the PCs they're certain to be dragged under by their troubles before
they can be any use. Maybe the subject happens to dwell in a place with
such heavy Empyrean wards that divine gifts can't effectively be used
against them.

Whatever the cause, there's something preventing a clean and easy
solution here. If you want a particularly elaborate problem, you might
use the Court tables in this chapter to brew up the situation.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer169 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Changing a Custom
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A powerful neighbor requires the custom from them.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    The custom has great magical power for local wizards.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    The custom is compelled by the threat of a curse.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    The custom is imposed by fearsome supernatural beings.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    The custom is intrinsic to local religion.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    The custom is symbolic of a cherished ancient victory.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    The custom is thought just punishment to its victims.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The custom is tied to a crucial social support.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The last attempt to change it brought a disaster to them.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The last reformer was an incompetent tyrant, still hated.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The local ruler\'s support relies on the custom.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   The richest locals owe much wealth to the custom.
  ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer170 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Convincing Someone
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    An enemy is poisoning their mind against the PCs.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    The NPC is afraid of the consequences of cooperating.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    The NPC just doesn\'t like the PC, resenting them.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    The NPC wants a favor that the PCs just can\'t do.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    They blame the PC or their associates for some problem.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    They want exorbitant payment or help before aiding.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    They\'re deeply mistaken about the PCs\' motivation..
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    They\'re easy to convince, but hopelessly incompetent.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    They\'re easy to convince, but misunderstand the PCs.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'re not really the person who must be convinced.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'re totally distracted by a current problem.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Working with the NPC means infuriating a dire foe.
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer171 .Single-Column}
Clearing a Ruin

The ruins of the Former Empires litter the realms, and hardly any land
doesn't sport dozens of these desolate places. Some occupied terrain so
useful that people have since built towns and cities on top of the
buried wreckage, while others still stand lonely in waste places that
once were rich and prosperous. Brave souls seek to plunder their riches
now and then, but always fewer return than went out.

The PCs might need to clear a ruin in order to obtain some vital
resource it held, whether salvage from celestial engines or some
long-lost substance that the Former Empires made in abundance. Other
ruins are nests of evil, sheltering monsters or bandits that would be an
insurmountable obstacle to whatever plan the PCs are trying to execute
if they are not cleared out.

Earlier in the chapter you'll find a more elaborate system for creating
and stocking ruins. The problems listed here are ones you can use to
flavor those results, or as touchstones for developing the ruin. Some of
them involve problems that have nothing to do with the ruin itself, but
only with those who claim its riches or threaten interlopers.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer172 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Finding a Thing
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A friendly ally has it but desperately needs to keep it.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Local rulers have reason to keep the PCs away from it.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Some powerful foe is currently hunting the thing.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    The map or lead to the thing is in widely-scattered parts.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    The only one who knows where it is hates the PCs.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    The thing can only be had in a narrow time window.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    The thing has a decoy that's actually a trap.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The thing is actually totally different from what it seems.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The thing is held by a powerful foe who keeps it secret.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The thing moves constantly, so locations go stale rapidly.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The thing's far harder to get rid of than to acquire.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   There are many examples of the thing, all but one fake.
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer173 .Single-Column}
Killing a Monster

The slaying of monsters is a venerable role for heroes. Noble as it may
be, the legends tend to leave out the enormous amount of work that can
be involved in tracking down a beast, pinning it in place, and assailing
it with enough force to do the job. For this challenge, the PCs may have
only a vague idea of the monster's nature or location, and once they
find it they might discover that only special measures can give them any
chance of defeating it.

Aside from bestial Misbegotten or the more mindless horrors of the
Uncreated, the monster might be an intelligent being itself. A parasite
god or hostile angel might have far more resources than any brute beast,
and the intelligence to hunt its would-be hunters first. Indeed, it
might be the expectation of their interference with the PCs' plans that
is forcing the pantheon to act against them in the first place.

Such intelligent foes very rarely work alone. They will have trusted
lieutenants and mobs of lesser servitors close to hand, and the PCs
might have to do substantial scouting and subduing of enemy forces
before they're in a position to strike the true threat.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer174 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Rallying a Group
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A holy place has been seized by enemies or disaster.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A leader has been discredited but still tries to rule.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    An inspiring relic or talisman has been lost to dire foes.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Bare survival concerns them more than the PCs' wishes.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Desperately-needed allies refuse to come to their aid.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Former internal strife has reduced them to misery.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Their leaders are too weak or poor to aid their people.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Their leadership has been systematically exterminated.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    They're convinced divine displeasure scourges them.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   They've been utterly crushed by their rivals.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Trusted friends have betrayed them to their enemies.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Trusted leaders are imprisoned or lost.
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer175 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Killing a Monster
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A failed attempt would bring disastrous consequences.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Getting at it requires opening its prison or sealed lair.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    It has a swarm of spawn or loyal servitors to guard it.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Killing it would produce an immediate magical disaster.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Killing the thing requires a secret preparation or item.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Locals placate the thing with sacrifices and fear its anger.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    The creature always flees a fight it's not sure it will win.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The creature has hostages or prisoners in its lair.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The creature is extremely hard to locate or identify.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The creature is sacred to a powerful community.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The entity holds back a dire consequence by existing.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   The local ruler is tied to its life or continuing power.
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer176 .Single-Column}
Rallying a Group

The PCs are faced with a community or institution that is utterly
hopeless. These people might be so despairing at a recent reverse that
they're useless for anything but waiting to die. They could be so riven
with desperate quarrels and old grudges that they can't possibly pull
together to serve the PCs' purposes. Or it could be that they've been
beaten down and oppressed so long that they have no will to try anything
that their masters would not wish them to attempt.

Dealing with these challenges often requires that the PCs either
eliminate the source of the fear and oppression or that they somehow
convince the people that hope is not purest folly for them. Victories
against their enemies, gifts of wealth and prosperity, and the
restoration of their trusted rulers and leaders is often needed if the
group is to pull together once more.

Sometimes, the rallying force for the group might be one the PCs would
rather not engage. It's not always a [good]{.CharOverride-2} cause that
can pull a community together, and some inspiring means can come to bad
ends.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer177 .Single-Column}
Finding a Thing

The PCs need a thing in order to progress with their plans, but they
have no idea where to find it. This particular thing could be anything
at all: a specific celestial relic, a set of royal regalia proving
legitimate rule, a key to ancient and persistent wards that interfere
with divine gifts, or the missing daughter of a vital political ally.
Something is keeping the PCs from easily locating the object, even if
they know what it is they're looking for in the first place.

Some Godbound have gifts that are particularly useful for finding
things, the Word of Knowledge in particular. For PCs with access to
these resources, finding a thing might actually be relatively simple,
but the actual [obtaining]{.CharOverride-2} of it might be a Stealth and
Stealing challenge instead. Be careful not to discount PC abilities in
these challenges, particularly when they're very appropriate.

For other PCs, they might have to seek out sages, make contacts with the
underworld in a particular area, or conduct lengthy reconnaissance of
their own to find a lead. Such efforts always come at a price, whether
favors to the mighty or precious time to do their own digging into a
case.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer178 .Single-Column}
Resolving a Conflict

There's a struggle that's tearing apart the community here, or at least
making it impossible to effectively pursue the PCs' plans. This conflict
is unlikely to be one of simple oppression, as societies can get along
quite comfortably in such circumstances. Instead, two or more groups are
at each others' throats, and they have enough strength or influence to
make that opposition count.

Some conflicts really are simple matters of injustice, but most are more
nuanced. Each side can usually give a litany of causes and reasons why
their enmity is justified, and not all of these are comfortable lies.
Both sides really might be less than sympathetic for the PCs.

PCs can resolve situations like this either by resolving the point of
conflict between the groups or by completely shattering one or both
sides. The latter might be simpler, but sometimes both groups are needed
to carry out the pantheon's plans, and it's not practical to simply
remove them from the board.

Some solutions are also more durable than others. Temporary truces and
honeyed promises can buy calm for a while, but the bill for such things
will always come due in the end.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer179 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Sneaking or Stealing
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A map or location needs to be stolen first to find it.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    It's in an extremely remote and inaccessible place.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    It's toxic or dangerous to illicit intruders or thieves.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Its entrances and exits are one-way or shifting.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Its known infiltration or loss would cause social chaos.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    The area is constantly occupied by people or beasts.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    The area is heavily warded with magical defenses.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The object or location moves around secretly.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The seeming perils are not the real dangers there.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Theft or infiltration would infuriate a dangerous foe.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   There are decoy objects or locations, heavily trapped.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   There is a critical time pressure on theft or infiltration.
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer180 .Single-Column}
Undoing an Enchantment

The Former Empires left sorceries littering the realms, some good and
more bad. Curdled sorceries, ancient curses, blessings gone feral and
dangerous... these things can scourge a community and make it difficult
to accomplish great ends there. Most people will welcome the aid of the
Godbound in lifting whatever blights trouble their people, though this
relief can come at a dire price.

The exact effects of the enchantment aren't as important to an adventure
as the means by which it can be lifted. Ordinary gifts or miracles might
immunize a hero or lift the curse briefly, but to really undo it
requires performing some great deed or breaking some ancient engine of
misfortune. Particularly terrible blights might even require the repair
of a damaged celestial engine in some long-lost shard of Heaven,
necessitating a Night Road journey and the overcoming of whatever dire
creatures now nest in the shard.

Some enchantments have two edges, being both blessing and curse. Lifting
them isn't always entirely appreciated by the locals.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer181 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Resolving a Conflict
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A major line of business has grown around the conflict.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A single gadfly is driving most of the conflict.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Deeds in the fight are what legitimizes their leadership.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Each side claims ownership of a now-lost relic of rule.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    If united, the group would be a menace to others.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Old debts of blood or land are preventing resolution.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    One sub-group is bitterly set on bloody revenge.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The conflict is driven by religious differences.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The conflict is extremely lucrative for a third party.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The leaders fear they'd be deposed if the conflict ended.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The less sympathetic side is actually basically justified.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   They're disputing over a vital, genuinely limited resource.
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer182 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  d12                     Undoing an Enchantment
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A local faith uses it as evidence of its truth and rights.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A particular magical entity must die to lift it.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A powerful local is making money off it somehow.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    It persists as long as a particular family still rules.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    It's coming from something in a dangerous ancient ruin.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    It's keeping a dire enemy at bay with its presence.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Local society has become symbiotic with it in a way.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    The secret for undoing it is kept in a lost magic library.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The secret of its dispelling is of military value to a rival.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Things will be very bad for a few years after its undoing.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Undoing it also undoes a benefit to a neighboring group.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Undoing it requires traveling far to a dangerous place.
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer183 .Single-Column}
Sneaking or Stealing

There are very few places that can seriously challenge a Godbound
infiltrator's more roguish ambitions. The gifts of Deception or of Night
can penetrate any conventional wards, and the arts of Journeying can
break open even magical barriers and enchanted seals. If sneaking or
stealing is to really be a challenge for such heroes, it's going to take
more than a locked door and a dozen night-watchmen.

Of course, not all sneaking and stealing [should]{.CharOverride-2} be a
challenge for such PCs. If they've focused their concept and abilities
around stealthy infiltration, then they should be able to steal the sort
of things that a thief-god could steal. The complications given here
often revolve around more than the strictly mechanical aspects of
thievery, and add difficulties that don't necessarily relate to a quiet
step and an opened lock.

Heroes that have specialized in thievery might be able to bypass many of
these dangers, and should be allowed to do so if they can explain the
relevant use of their talents. Even if it is easy now, such heroes tend
to push their luck until they find a truly worthy danger.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer184 .Sidebar}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker335}Withdrawing
Influence

As the GM, how do you adjudicate a situation when a PC withdraws
Influence? Just look at the situation and see if there\'s any particular
force or group that\'s opposed to what the PC accomplished with their
Influence. If there is, they\'ll wreck or undo it over a logical amount
of time.

Is what the hero made somehow better or more advanced than what the
locals could maintain without the Godbound\'s help? Magical factories,
advanced infrastructure, and educational facilities fall into this
heading, and will fall apart soon after the PC moves on. This doesn\'t
mean that the devices the factories built will burn up or the students
the school trained will suddenly lose their knowledge, but goods will be
scattered, students will turn to their own goals or move elsewhere, and
the situation will slope back down to the status quo ante.

Did the hero use their Influence to make some major event happen, such
as shepherding a duke into conquering a neighboring state? These facts
will still exist, but they\'re no longer under the PC\'s control. The
more that the ensuing situation depended on the PC\'s own involvement,
the more chaotic and fragile the aftermath is going to be. If the duke
was seriously considering invading anyway, there may be no fallout at
all, while the sudden betrayal of an ancient ally is going to cause
fireworks when the Godbound finally takes their hands off the wheel.

Don\'t let this decay be a surprise to the player. If they make a change
with Influence, let them know how likely it is to be survive once
they\'re no longer personally shepherding it. In most cases, this should
be fairly obvious to the Godbound, and they may choose to moderate their
goals or to not make some Influence changes at all if they think the
eventual blowback will be too great.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer185 .Single-Column}
  --------- ------ ----------------------------------------------
  Scope     Cost   
  Village   1      Villages, a few square miles, 1,000 people
  City      2      Major city, ten miles square, 100,000 people
  Region    4      Province, a thousand square miles, 1 million
  Nation    8      An entire kingdom, 100 million people
  Realm     16     The whole world, Billions of people
  --------- ------ ----------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer186 .Sidebar}
Mundus Wards

The ancients of the Former Empires knew the dangers of unconstrained
divinity, and so their theotechnicians devised special wards to hinder
the hostile use of divine power. These "mundus wards" took many
different shapes, from deep-carved runes consecrated in esoteric rites
to physical engines that spun to bleed off celestial power. Most of
these wards have long since decayed or been forgotten, but enough have
survived to be a hindrance.

A mundus ward has a rating from 1 to as much as 20. The ward's rating
increases the base Influence cost to any changes made within the ward,
before any multipliers. These wards are subtle, and they do not
interfere with immediate use of gifts or miracles. Over the time
necessary to enact larger changes, however, they sap away the force of
the Godbound's efforts. When a working includes multiple wards, only the
highest rating is used.

Godbound can bypass a ward either by completely destroying it, which may
be difficult should the ward be hidden or dispersed, or by discovering
its key. A person in possession of a ward's key can ignore its
protections, as can any allies they permit to attune to it.

Most long-standing cities have mundus wards, though they may not even
realize what they are or that they're still functioning. These relics
usually range from 1 to 4 points in strength. Those nations that
carefully maintained their wards might have cities with barriers of up
to 10 points, or even more. The ancient ruins of the former days also
often have functional wards, complicating any efforts to enact changes
on the lands surrounding them.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer187 .Sidebar}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor132}Creature
Modifications

[If the changes are heritable and Plausible or
Improbable]{.CharOverride-3}, then they are inherited normally by
descendants. Altering your chosen people to bear certain physical marks
or give them an unusual knack for war is something that will be passed
on indefinitely, fading out only with large admixtures of other
lineages.

[If the changes are heritable and Impossible]{.CharOverride-3}, then you
need to decide whether they apply to an area or a total number of
descendants when choosing the scope of your changes. If you choose an
area, like a particular city or province, then only offspring born
within that area inherit the changes. If you choose a population, then
only a total number of descendants equal to the scope inherit the
change, over however many generations they may reproduce. After that,
the alteration is diluted away.

Thus, giving your chosen people wings or imbuing animals with human
intellect is something with an intrinsic limit in how far the magic can
reach. If you wanted to turn a village of faithful cultists into
transhuman warbeasts, for example, you might choose an area scope of
just that village. The changes will then breed true, but only for
subjects born in that village. Conversely, you might choose a population
scope equal to that of a full region, changing only that first few
hundred but ensuring that up to a million heirs will share the blessings
before they start to fade.

[If you create intelligent creatures]{.CharOverride-3}, you usually need
to start with a human base. It would be a tremendous feat of divine
power to actually ignite an ensouled intellect out of nothing, and the
possibility and difficulty of such a thing is up to the GM. Sufficient
work can transfer human souls into new bodies, if volunteers or victims
are available. Some divinities have created races of intelligent animals
by such grafting, as once the creature is enkindled it can reproduce
more of its kind. Unintelligent or non-sentient automatons can be
created [ex nihilo]{.CharOverride-2} without difficulty.

[Changes taught by an institution]{.CharOverride-3} provide enough
worthy graduates to supply an area equal to the scope chosen. Thus, if
you didn\'t want to embed war-skill in the soul-gene of your chosen
people and instead just wanted to make a military academy that taught
them their gifts, you could do so. If you build that academy with a
regional scope, you\'ll create enough war-wise followers to supply that
entire region with soldiers and commanders, and this supply will
continue as long as the institution stands. Graduates could leave the
area, of course, but there wouldn\'t be enough of them to make a major
difference in the armies of other lands. It\'s up to the GM to decide
what gifts can plausibly be taught, and which have to involve the direct
blessing of the divine.

[Powerful creatures can be made as individuals. ]{.CharOverride-3}If the
Godbound restricts themselves to making no more than one creature at a
time, they can build major supernatural entities with hit dice equal to
5 plus twice their level, one attack for every three levels they have,
one action per round for every five levels they have, and straight
damage equal to 1d8 per attack. These creatures have Effort equal to the
creator\'s level and one appropriate lesser gift per three levels.
Fractional character levels are rounded up.

Such creatures might be made from nothing or be imbued champions. Each
one costs 8 Dominion to create. Innately loyal entities are less potent;
halve their creator\'s effective level for purposes of determining its
stats if it is created to be obedient.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer188 .Sidebar}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor133}Faction
Problems and Changes

While Godbound heroes can create marvels with their gifts, mortal
societies can have a hard time coping with the changes. If you\'re using
the faction rules, every time the Godbound adds a new Feature to a
faction with their Influence or Dominion, the faction gains a one-point
Problem related to the undesirable consequences of the change. Local
merchants might be put out of business by cornucopian blessings, gentry
might be upset at newly-educated peasants and their insolence, or some
other backlash that is inevitable when great and rapid changes are
afoot.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer189 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor134}Godbound
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker336}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker337}Cults

Once the Apotheosis gift [Receive the Incense of Faith]{.CharOverride-3}
is obtained at second level a Godbound can accept willing disciples and
begin to benefit from the reverence of their faithful. This worship
strengthens their divine authority, allowing them to form a cult faction
and use it to gain Dominion points each month, quite aside from any Aid
an Ally faction actions the cult might perform on their behalf. The more
demanding the faith, the more abundant the Dominion it grants its god.

The Faithful

Any intelligent mortal being may choose to become a worshiper of a
Godbound possessing the gift [Receive the Incense of
Faith]{.CharOverride-3}. The Godbound need not be present, or even in
the same realm; all that is required is that the aspiring devotee know
who the Godbound is and voluntarily choose to pledge themselves to the
divinity. This choice cannot be magically compelled, but more mundane
inducements can be used to \"encourage\" a new believer. The Godbound
can always tell whether or not a given person is their worshiper.

This dedication can take place without the Godbound's specific
attention. If the Godbound is then displeased with a devotee, they can
always reject them at any point. Once rejected, the worshiper may not
return to the fold without the Godbound's specific permission.

A mortal can be dedicated to only one Godbound at a time. If they give
worship to a full pantheon, their devotion is given over to the Godbound
of the pantheon most fitting to their personality and desires. If
there's no obvious reason to rule otherwise, a group of mortals pledged
to a pantheon are evenly divided among them.

Once pledged to a Godbound, a worshiper cannot voluntarily leave their
service. They might leave the cult, they might serve a new faith, they
might make war on their former deity, but they are still treated as
worshipers of the Godbound for purposes of their gifts of Apotheosis.
This leaves apostates in a very vulnerable position, prey to whatever
rebuke their gods might deliver to them. Only by finding another
Godbound or divinity willing to accept them as a worshiper can they be
free of their former allegiance.

Forming the Cult

A Godbound needs at least one village worth of devout adherents before
they can form a useful cult. Smaller numbers may provide all manner of
useful mundane services, but a minimum of one village\'s worth of
believers is needed to fuel their patron with a flow of Dominion. These
adherents must be willing to accept the rituals, sacrifices, and laws of
the cult. Backslidden, suppressed, or careless believers are still
believers, but only religiously-active worshipers count toward a
Godbound's cult.

This number of believers forms a faction with a Power of 1 and one
beneficial Feature related to the Godbound\'s values and beliefs. Thus,
the devotees of a Godbound of the Sword might have the Feature, \"The
cult has a strong martial tradition.\", while one of Wealth might be
\"The cult is very wealthy.\" The player chooses the Feature with the
GM\'s approval. This new faction has no existing Problems, except for
those burdens that the Godbound might choose to deliver as part of their
new holy writ.

Cult Power increases at the GM\'s judgment, when the PC has managed to
accrue enough new believers to merit a Power increase. They must have
some formal association with the existing cult to count.

Holy Laws and Dominion Gains

Once the Godbound has mustered a cult faction, they can begin to give
them holy writ, sacred teachings, or other religious instruction. For
some Godbound, these religious strictures are very much about living a
life in line with the hero's beliefs, dutiful obedience to a moral code,
and outward-focused obligations to the world around the believer. For
other Godbound, these strictures might involve meditation, group
worship, glorification of their name, or more ego-satisfying demands. A
Godbound can lay almost any set of rules or demands on their cult, so
long as the focus is ultimately the Godbound and their glory or desires
for the world. The more exacting and demanding the cult's strictures,
the more generous the flow of Dominion it grants.

A Godbound decides how harsh and demanding their holy laws might be, and
the cult gains a number of Problem points related to these requirements,
as described under the faction rules on the following pages. These
Problems can never be solved or lessened; they\'re intrinsic to
worshiping the Godbound. A Godbound can spend a faction turn changing
their theology, but this stress inevitably costs the faith one point of
Power as it shrinks due to the loss of traditionalists and the surge of
heretical interpretations.

A Godbound who makes only nominal demands on the worshipers in terms of
sacrifices and personal behavior doesn\'t need to add any Problem
points. Worshiping them is easy and low-commitment. Their cult grants
them Dominion equal to its Power each month.

A Godbound who makes only a few sharp demands from their believers, such
as occasional costly sacrifices or some firm, restrictive code of
personal conduct will have a cult with related Problems equal to a
quarter of the cult\'s action die, rounded up, increasing as it grows in
power. These cults grant an extra point of Dominion each month, however,
compared to more clement faiths.

A truly grueling faith with many harsh requirements has Problems equal
to half the action die but grants an extra two Dominion points per
month. Cults with so many requirements and sacrifices that the believers
can hardly function without direct divine oversight have Problems equal
to three-quarters of the action die, rounded up, but grant an extra
three points per month. Such cult factions are likely to need their
patron to actually get anything done, and can explode into chaos if they
suddenly get a few more Problem points from some cause.

Free Divinities

Not all Godbound are suited to having followers. Some might be naturally
independent, while others might have players who don't want to bother
with a cult. At the player's discretion, a Godbound can become a free
divinity rather than one that cultivates a faith. This decision is made
when the character reaches second level, and may only be changed
afterwards if the GM finds it appropriate. Even then, a great deed or
adventure might be needed to change it.

Free divinities lose all the usual gifts of the Apotheosis Word.
Instead, they preserve their own celestial force, becoming
self-generating fonts of Dominion. A free divinity gains one point of
Dominion each month, plus one more for each three full character levels
they possess. No cult is necessary to generate this power, and indeed,
free divinities cannot even have true worshipers, though they might have
a few devoted allies and enthusiasts who consider themselves faithful.
If their pantheon forms a Paradise, they can participate in it as usual.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer190 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor135}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker338}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor136}Factions,
Nations, and Organizations

Godbound heroes being what they are, it\'s very likely that at least
some of the PCs in a group will become the patrons or rulers of nations,
cults, organizations, cities, or other large groups of people. It\'s
also likely that the general heroics they perform or the random
instances of chaos might have substantial effects on a community or
group. While many GMs and players are perfectly content with narrating
these changes on a purely ad-hoc basis, others enjoy a more structured
way of running nations and putting large groups at odds with each other.

This section is meant to provide those rules, along with helping a GM
add some life to a campaign setting. The conflicts and strifes of major
groups can keep going even when the PCs aren\'t involved, thus adding an
extra degree of vitality to a world and churning up situations that can
interest and engage the PCs. It\'s not necessary to make a formal
faction out of every nation or group in the campaign setting, but
mechanizing a few of the most important can give a GM some background
activity to engage the players and add verisimilitude to the setting.

Parts of a Faction

A [faction]{.CharOverride-3} is any group or community which is intended
to be an important actor in your campaign. Factions can be nations,
religions, communities, secret cabals, rebel movements, or any other
substantial organization of NPCs. These faction rules are best used only
with the active, important groups in your campaign; not every nation
should be statted up as a faction, nor every sinister conspiracy. Only
the ones that seem most interesting or relevant to the campaign deserve
the extra effort of writing them up.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------- ------------
  Power                  Size                                    Action Die
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Village, neighborhood, guild, cabal     1d6
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   City, regional faith, major institute   1d8
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Province, region, widespread faith      1d10
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Nation, realm-wide faith                1d12
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Empire ruling an entire realm           1d20
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------- ------------

Factions have [Power]{.CharOverride-3}, representing their size and
scope. Power is rated from 1 to 5 as per the table below. A faction\'s
Power gives it a particular [action die]{.CharOverride-3} which it rolls
when it tries to accomplish something or overcome difficulties. A
faction\'s Power only changes when the GM decides it\'s a rational
outcome of their efforts and setbacks. This may never happen during the
course of a normal campaign, though PC involvement can boost or degrade
a faction rapidly.

Factions have [Cohesion]{.CharOverride-3} equal to their Power. Cohesion
measures the resilience, unity, and durability of the faction\'s
identity. If enemy action reduces a faction\'s Cohesion to zero, the
group breaks apart under the strain of events. Nations might splinter
into warring provinces or succumb to an invading power, while villages
might be abandoned as the surviving locals flee for better places.

Factions have [Features]{.CharOverride-3}, which they use to accomplish
things and resist hostile actions. A Feature is something that is a
useful or resilient quality about the membership or their available
assets, usually expressed in a single sentence. \"The village has a
much-respected school of martial training with many capable students.\"
is a Feature, for example, as is \"The townsmen are fiercely proud of
their city\'s independence, and prize that freedom above their own
self-interest.\" Features represent those things that can be used by the
Faction to accomplish things or resist outside influence.

It\'s possible for exceptionally important Features to be made up of
several parts, such as \"The Patrian Empire has magnificent heavy foot
troops. They are stoutly loyal to the Emperor\'s will. Their morale is
superb, and they\'re convinced that no force in the realm can withstand
them.\" That Feature is actually made up of three different
sentence-parts, and an enemy that wanted to degrade it away would have
to corrupt or destroy all three parts to render it completely useless.

Factions have [Problems]{.CharOverride-3}, which are the opposite of
Features. These are afflictions or difficulties that make it harder to
accomplish anything useful or withstand outside pressure. Problems are
usually expressed in a sentence or two and have a point value attached
to them to describe how severe the problem is. \"The slaves of the
Patrian Empire are restive and prone to rebellion in the rural
provinces.\" might be a 2-point Problem, while \"The etheric energy
nodes of the Bright Republic are breaking down with no possibility of
repair.\" might be a 4-point calamity. Most problems are only worth 1 or
2 points.

The sum of a faction\'s Problems is its [Trouble]{.CharOverride-3}
score. If the Trouble score ever equals the faction\'s maximum action
die roll, the faction will collapse from its many problems. Thus, if a
village ever accumulates 6 points of Problems, one of them is going to
prove too much for the locals. In the same fashion, if a major nation
ever builds 12 points of calamities, it\'s going to fall apart.

Factions also have [Interest]{.CharOverride-3} in other factions.
Interest represents the faction\'s ability to interfere or aid in
another faction\'s activities, and might involve the work of spies,
intense cultural influence, overt mercantile ties, benevolent foreign
aid organizations, or marriages of state between important families.
It\'s not always negative to allow another faction to build Interest in
an organization; if they\'re trustworthy allies, they can use their ties
to aid the faction as easily as harm it. A faction can have no more
points of Interest in any single rival than twice its own maximum action
die roll, as there\'s only so much of a push a small faction can exert
on its bigger neighbors.

Lastly, factions have Dominion points just as Godbound heroes do and can
use them to make changes just as the PCs can. Unlike divine avatars of
celestial principles, however, factions can\'t accomplish Impossible
changes with their Dominion. They have to restrict themselves to
Plausible and Improbable changes. If they want to accomplish something
really outre\', they need to prepare the situation by building enough
Plausible and Improbable changes beforehand to finally make that
Impossible feat a more plausible outcome.

Creating a Faction

Building a faction for your campaign isn\'t difficult at all. Just
follow the steps below and you\'ll have a suitable vehicle for your
campaign\'s sinister plans in no time.

First, just write a few paragraphs of description for the faction in
natural language. Name it, describe its geographical details, write
about its people or membership, and make some notes about the goals and
general ambitions of its leadership.

Next, assign it a Power based on how large it is. Villages and small
local organizations should have a Power of 1. Cities and organizations
that span an entire nation should have a Power of 2. Provinces, large
regions, and international organizations should have a Power of 3.
Powerful nations and major, widely-supported international organizations
or religions should have a Power of 4. Realm-spanning empires of
unquestioned might should have a Power of 5. The faction\'s Cohesion
points equal its Power.

Now pick its Features. A faction should usually have about one useful
Feature for each point of Power, possibly one or two more or less
depending on its situation. Only the most hopeless communities should
lack even one useful Feature. These Features can be anything that could
meaningfully contribute to the group\'s advancement, and it should be
possible to describe them in about one sentence. A very important
Feature might have multiple parts, with different sentences describing
different helpful qualities of the Feature. A hostile force trying to
cripple the Feature would have to break each of its individual parts
before the Feature became wholly useless.

Now it\'s time to pick its Problems. Most well-run and decently
prosperous factions have a total number of points of Problems equal to
about a quarter of their maximum action die roll. Thus, a village with a
d6 action die has one or two points of Problems, while a nation with a
d12 might have three points of difficulties. Factions that are beset,
weak, or impoverished but not in active crisis have about a third of
their maximum action die in points, while those that are facing some
immediate, alarming catastrophes have anywhere from half to
three-quarters of their maximum die roll. Any total higher than that
usually betokens a faction that\'s doomed without outside help.

When you know how many points of Problems you\'re going to assign, just
divide the points up into one or more different afflictions. A humble
village with two points of Problems might have \"Bandits regularly
harass outlying farms\" for one point and \"The community is
impoverished due to scant harvests\" for the other. Particularly harsh
problems can be worth more than one point, such as a city having
\"Relentless ethnic factionalism between the Patrian and Dulimbaian
communities has almost paralyzed the city council\" for two points, or
\"The land is cursed to bring forth monsters\" for more still. Arrange
these problems in a list, recording their point values next to them, and
note down the total as the faction\'s Trouble score.

If you have any other factions already created, take a moment to decide
if any of them have Interest in the faction, or if the faction has any
Interest in them. Ties of Interest represent some means of influence the
faction has over its neighbors, or some leverage its neighbors have over
it. Long-term allies probably have Interest in each other equal to their
respective action die maximums. Thus, two villages that were old
confederates would each have 6 points of Interest in each other. Ancient
rivals would be expected to have about the same amount, built up over
years of fencing. Take a moment to write down a sentence or so about the
nature of this Interest, so that when the possessor spends it on an
action, you can describe what happens.

Lastly, record any Dominion points the faction might have on hand. An
existing faction should probably start with Dominion equal to its Power,
while one that\'s just been created by local heroes or actors starts
with no stockpiled Dominion.

The above steps are all that are necessary to brew up a faction, whether
it\'s a write-up for an existing nation or detailing the latest polity
forged by Godbound PC heroics. Remember that not every nation or group
in your campaign will need to be written up. You should save your effort
for defining those factions that are likely to be active in the campaign
or acted-upon by PC ambitions.

Faction Tur[n]{.CharOverride-14}s, Trouble, and Conflict

Factions do things during the [faction turn]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s
usually safe to run a faction turn once per game month, though in times
of great excitement it might be run more often, or less often for larger
factions that don\'t change with the rapidity of a village in motion.
The GM decides when it\'s time to run a faction turn and what factions
should act during it.

Factions act in random order each turn. Every turn, the faction can
perform one [internal action]{.CharOverride-3} affecting their own
internal state of affairs, and one or more [external
actions]{.CharOverride-3} affecting their neighbors. A faction can take
as many external actions in a turn as they have Power, but they can\'t
use more than one action on a specific neighbor in a turn.

Some actions require [Trouble checks]{.CharOverride-3}. To make a
Trouble check, roll the faction\'s action die. If the number rolled is
greater than the faction\'s Trouble score, it passes the check. If equal
or less, it fails. You can compare the roll to the faction\'s list of
Problems to find out which Problem was instrumental in causing the check
to fail, or simply pick an appropriate one to blame.

Other actions require [Contests]{.CharOverride-3} between factions. For
a Contest, each faction rolls their action die and the higher score
wins, with ties going to the higher-Power faction, or the defender if
both are equal.

Uneven Conflicts

Sometimes the Features used in a Contest will be grotesquely mismatched.
The defenders might have a village militia, while the attackers are
using the enchanted flying riflemen of a Godbound\'s celestial nation.
Under most circumstances, the Contest should still be rolled normally;
failure by the riflemen might not mean they were driven back by the
peasants, but only that [something]{.CharOverride-2} happened along the
way to delay, complicate, or foil the intended plans.

If you want to play up the difference involved, you can roll the Contest
normally, but add a bonus to a side\'s roll for each of the following
situations that apply to the Feature they\'re using.

-   Add +1 if it\'s a vastly larger Feature than the opposing one,
    involving far more troops or personnel, or a far bigger institution.
-   Add +1 if it\'s a vastly qualitatively superior Feature than the one
    it\'s currently opposing.
-   Add +1 if the Feature has got magical qualities or supernatural
    powers relevant to the Contest.
-   Add + 1 if it was created by an Improbable project, such as the
    elite fighters trained by a Godbound of the Sword\'s guidance.
-   Add +2 if it was created by an Impossible project, such as a
    sorcerously-molded organism or some magical factory that churns out
    goods.

These bonuses don\'t apply if the side rolls a natural 1, as bad luck
happens to everyone. Thus, against the village militia, the army of
enchanted flying riflemen would add +5 to their roll, as they are vastly
larger in number, superior warriors, they have powers of flight that aid
them in battle, and their creation was the work of an Impossible project
by their Godbound creator. Their victory over mere human militia would
be [almost]{.CharOverride-2} certain. A natural roll of 1 might mean
that the militia somehow miraculously drove them back, but it\'s more
likely that some other circumstance interfered with their success.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor137}Common
Faction Actions

The faction turn actions below are just a sample of the ones most likely
to prove useful to a GM. The leaders of a faction can take other actions
if they seem plausible to the GM. To determine whether such novelties
are an internal action or an external action, just look to see if it
involves an outside faction. If it does, it\'s an external action.

  ------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  Internal Actions                      
  [Build Strength]{.CharOverride-7}     [Build up Dominion points]{.CharOverride-2}
  [Enact Change]{.CharOverride-7}       [Create a useful Feature or solve a Problem]{.CharOverride-2}
  [Restore Cohesion]{.CharOverride-7}   [Regain lost Cohesion and societal unity]{.CharOverride-2}
  External Actions                      
  [Aid an Ally]{.CharOverride-7}        [Give Dominion points to an ally]{.CharOverride-2}
  [Attack Rival]{.CharOverride-7}       [Harm a rival with overt hostile actions]{.CharOverride-2}
  [Extend Interest]{.CharOverride-7}    [Increase their Influence over another faction]{.CharOverride-2}
  [Remove Interest]{.CharOverride-7}    [Decrease a rival\'s Influence over their faction]{.CharOverride-2}
  Special Actions                       
  [Spend Interest]{.CharOverride-7}     [Aid or harm a faction by spending Influence]{.CharOverride-2}
  ------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

[Aid an Ally (External):]{.Bolded-Run-In} This action allows the faction
to give support to another friendly faction. The exact form of the aid
might vary, but as long as it seems plausibly helpful, this action can
be applied. The actor may send any number of its own Dominion points to
an ally or to a Plausible or Improbable project being pursued by a
friendly Godbound. Doing so requires a Trouble check by the sender; on a
success, it works, and on a failure, the culprit Problem spoils things
and the Dominion points are lost.

[Attack Rival (External):]{.Bolded-Run-In} This action allows the
faction to cause obvious trouble for a rival power. The assailant picks
a Feature they want to use to afflict their rival and describes the
change they want to exert. An army might be sent to invade an enemy, or
a corps of secret agents might assassinate important officials, or a
group of powerful trade guilds might strangle their mercantile dealings.
This change must fit the nature of the Feature used to enact it, and a
poor fit may apply penalties to the attempt.

Once the assailant chooses a Feature to use offensively, the defender
must choose a Feature with which to resist the change. They might
mobilize their own army to resist the invasion, call on their magical
inquisitors to root out the secret agents, or invoke their magnificent
natural resources to draw different merchants to their markets. As with
the offensive Feature, the defense has to be at least colorably relevant
to the resistance being attempted. A faction with no usable Features
automatically fails to resist the attack.

The assailant and the defender then roll a Contest. If the Feature being
used is only marginally relevant to the attack or defense being mounted,
the faction rolls their action die twice and takes the lowest result. If
the defender wins, the change is repulsed successfully and nothing
happens.

If the assailant wins, the defender must make some choices. They may
choose to lose a point of Cohesion, fending off the change at a cost in
their faction\'s stability and strength. They may choose to sacrifice
the Feature, allowing it to become ruined or scattered in the process of
overcoming the attack. Or they may choose to allow the change to occur,
gaining a new one-point Problem related to it, or increasing a relevant
Problem by one point.

Larger factions inflict more damage on smaller ones. If the assailant
has a higher Power than the defender, add the difference to the Problem
points inflicted. Thus, a nation-sized faction with Power 4 would
inflict four points of Problems on a village-sized faction with Power 1,
likely wiping it out in a stroke unless the village was already largely
problem-free. Such a smaller victim can still avoid damage by
sacrificing the defensive Feature or losing a point of Cohesion.

Note that a single Inflict Problems action may not be enough to achieve
some changes completely. The invaders might [want]{.CharOverride-2} to
conquer their equal-sized rival\'s capital city, but a success just
means they\'re one Problem point closer to achieving that. Eventually,
their victim will either run out of Cohesion or get too many points of
Problems and will collapse, indicating that the military campaign
finally succeeds in destroying all resistance. The precise details of
the collapse are up to the GM to describe as seems appropriate.

[Build Strength (Internal):]{.Bolded-Run-In} This action allows the
faction to marshal its resources and work toward its goals. Make a
Trouble check; on a success, you gain half your faction\'s Power in
Dominion points, rounded up. On a failure, the culprit Problem has
spoiled the effort.

[Enact Change (Internal):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The faction uses this action
to create a change in their polity, just as a Godbound would, by
spending the appropriate amount of Dominion for the scale of change
desired.

If used to solve a Problem, a special Trouble check is rolled, with the
goal being to roll [equal or under]{.CharOverride-2} the total Trouble
of the faction. The more problems the faction has, the easier it is to
mitigate at least one of the afflictions. On a success, the Problem in
question shrinks by one point, perhaps vanishing entirely. On a failure,
the spent Dominion is wasted as things go awry.

If used to create a new Feature, a Trouble check is rolled. If it fails,
the Dominion is lost and the Problem that foiled the attempt increases
by one point as the polity struggles with the effort. If it succeeds,
the Feature comes into existence, but an existing Problem increases by
one point or a pertinent new Problem appears at one point. Investing
effort in improving a faction\'s resources is a hazardous undertaking
for those that already have internal strife.

Features created by Enact Change can elaborate or add on to existing
Features. Rivals who want to eliminate such a Feature must destroy all
its constituent parts before it is ruined and useless.

[Extend Interest (External):]{.Bolded-Run-In} This action allows the
faction to build their Interest with a neighbor or rival, gaining a
greater ability to exert their control over a rival\'s actions and the
power to siphon off a measure of their wealth and power. Interest need
not be used in a hostile fashion, but most factions are leery of
allowing their neighbors to have too much of a say in their own internal
affairs.

The Extend Interest action works much like the Attack Rival action,
except that the assailant uses their Feature to describe a way in which
they are gaining more control over their target. A merchant guild might
be used to gain more control over their financial affairs, while secret
agents could suborn and bribe their officials. The defender must use a
Feature that can counter this kind of skulduggery; without a relevant
Feature, the defender cannot resist the attempt.

If both factions have relevant Features, they roll a Contest. If a
Feature is only marginally related to their desired outcome, they roll
their action die twice and take the lowest roll. If the defender wins,
the assailant\'s attempt to extend their Influence fails and nothing
happens. If the assailant wins, their attempt is a success and they gain
one point of Interest over the target. They can later use this Interest
with the \"Spend Interest\" special action, while the victim can try to
pry it out with the \"Remove Interest\" external action. A faction
can\'t have more Interest with a rival than twice their own maximum
action die. Thus, a village can\'t have more than 12 points of Interest
in a neighboring faction.

In some cases, the target will [want]{.CharOverride-2} the attempt to
succeed, such as when a neighbor sends active support in the wake of
some disaster or they are forming a close alliance for some greater
purpose. In that case, the Extend Interest action is automatically
successful.

[Remove Interest (External):]{.Bolded-Run-In} This action is used to
eliminate a rival\'s Interest over the actor\'s own faction should they
no longer be trusted or if they prove to be an outright enemy to the
faction. If the Interested faction consents to withdraw, the action is
automatically successful. Otherwise, both sides roll a Contest. If the
removing faction wins, the influencing faction loses a point of
Interest. If they lose, then there is no change.

Note that even if the target faction consents to this withdrawal, only
one point of Influence is dismantled every time this action is used. It
takes time to provably deactivate and unwind a faction\'s agents and
infrastructure in an area, and until it is rooted out, the controlling
faction can still change their mind.

[Restore Cohesion (Internal):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The faction uses this
action to restore its spirit and unity after a time of crisis, naming a
Feature it\'s using to aid itself. A faction with no usable Features
cannot restore Cohesion. The cost is a number of Dominion points equal
to that needed for an Improbable change: 2 points for a village, up to
32 points for a realm-sized empire. Once paid, a successful Trouble
check will restore a point of Cohesion. Even on a failure, the points
are spent.

[Spend Interest (Special):]{.Bolded-Run-In} This is a special action
that can be taken at any time, even during another faction\'s turn,
albeit only once per turn per target faction. Thus, if a faction had
Interest with three neighbors, they could use this action up to three
times to interfere with their rivals, once with each neighbor.

The enactor can spend Interest they have with a rival faction to steal
Dominion points up to the number of Interest points spent. If they do
this just as the target is trying to perform an action that requires
Dominion, the target must still have enough Dominion left afterwards to
complete the action, or it fails entirely.

The enactor can instead spend Interest they have with a rival faction to
increase or decrease its Trouble rolls or Contest rolls, up to a maximum
equal to the Interest points spent or the acting faction\'s own action
die, whichever is less. If they make this adjustment before the roll is
made, it costs only Interest. If they decide to spend Interest after the
roll, they must spend an equal amount of Dominion as well.

For example, two villages have an old alliance built up over years, with
both of them having 12 Interest points with each other. A city-state
sends their militia to seize one of these villages with the Attack Rival
action. The city-state rolls an 8 on their action die, while the village
rolls a 5. Normally that would be a failure, but their old friend spends
4 Interest points and 4 Dominion to boost their ally\'s roll and give
them the victory. On the next turn, the outraged village attacks the
city in turn. Before the roll, their ally spends 6 Interest points to
boost their comrade\'s attack, the maximum allowed for a faction with a
1d6 action die. It costs no Dominion to do so because they spend it
before the die is rolled, acting preemptively to aid their ally.

Faction Goals

Factions run by NPCs will act according to their goals. If their
ambitions aren\'t obvious, the GM can pick or roll on the faction goal
tables below, using whatever model of behavior best fits the faction.

Example Factions

The example factions described below can serve as templates or stand-ins
for a GM in need of some quick large-scale actors in a campaign.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer191 .Single-Column}
  -------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d10                        Self-Absorbed Survivors
  [1--2]{.CharOverride-7}    Take no external actions for as long as possible, at least until targeted by a Coerce a Rival action by a foe.
  [3--4]{.CharOverride-7}    Solve one point worth of Problems, prioritizing those that have to do with external entanglements.
  [5--6]{.CharOverride-7}    Enact a Change to create a Feature that\'s useful for maintaining their survival against outside powers.
  [7--8]{.CharOverride-7}    Stockpile Dominion for future use, accumulating twice as many points as the faction\'s Power.
  [9--10]{.CharOverride-7}   Coerce a Rival with a non-military Feature in an attempt to bloodlessly deny them some external ambition.
  -------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer192 .Single-Column}
  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d10                        Scheming Manipulators
  [1--2]{.CharOverride-7}    Build the maximum possible Interest in the most likely foreign rival or threat.
  [3--4]{.CharOverride-7}    Increase the Problems of a rival by at least one point using non-overt Features to do it.
  [5--6]{.CharOverride-7}    Convince another faction to act on your behalf by threats or offered Aid an Ally actions.
  [7--8]{.CharOverride-7}    Enact a Change to create a Feature that looks harmless, but will be used for self-aggrandizing ends.
  [9--10]{.CharOverride-7}   Lessen a Problem by means of a non-military Feature, solving it through some cunning plot.
  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer193 .Single-Column}
  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d10                        Despotic Tyrants
  [1--2]{.CharOverride-7}    Enact a change dedicated solely to glorifying the tyrant, one that\'s totally useless as a Feature.
  [3--4]{.CharOverride-7}    Inflict a military defeat on a troublesome rival, doing at least one point of Coherence or Problem damage.
  [5--6]{.CharOverride-7}    Eliminate a point of Problem related to resistance to the despot\'s rule.
  [7--8]{.CharOverride-7}    Enact a change to create a Feature that\'s exceptionally useful for rooting out internal dissidents.
  [9--10]{.CharOverride-7}   Expand the faction\'s reach, either by annexing unclaimed land as an Improbable change or seizing a foe.
  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer194 .Single-Column}
  -------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d10                        Martial Conquerors
  [1--2]{.CharOverride-7}    Beat down a smaller, weaker rival into either a supine tributary state or a smoking pile of wreckage.
  [3--4]{.CharOverride-7}    Build or expand a military Feature, one designed to threaten a specific neighboring rival.
  [5--6]{.CharOverride-7}    Build half the maximum possible Interest in the rival they\'re most likely to next invade.
  [7--8]{.CharOverride-7}    Solve a point of Problems related to military difficulties or inefficiencies in the state.
  [9--10]{.CharOverride-7}   Use a non-military Feature to Coerce a Rival into losing one of their military Features.
  -------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer195 .Single-Column}
  ------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---------
  A Minor Parasite God Cult                                                                                
  [Power:]{.CharOverride-7}      1                                        [Action Die:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6
  [Cohesion:]{.CharOverride-7}   1                                        [Trouble:]{.CharOverride-7}      2
  [Features:]{.CharOverride-7}   Their god deals savagely with threats.                                    
  [Problems:]{.CharOverride-7}   Neighbors fear and hate them.                                             1 point
                                 Their god makes cruel demands.                                            1 point
  ------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer196 .Single-Column}
  ------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---------
  A Common Farming Hamlet                                                                                  
  [Power:]{.CharOverride-7}      1                                        [Action Die:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6
  [Cohesion:]{.CharOverride-7}   1                                        [Trouble:]{.CharOverride-7}      2
  [Features:]{.CharOverride-7}   The farmers trust and help each other.                                    
  [Problems:]{.CharOverride-7}   Armed ruffians prey on them.                                              1 point
                                 The soil is tired and grows little.                                       1 point
  ------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer197 .Sidebar}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor138}Godbound
PCs and Factions

The actions and interplay between factions are meant to provide a
background for events in your campaign. You roll some dice, see what was
attempted and why it failed or how it succeeded, and decide how to
describe the exchange as rumors, news, or observations the PCs might
notice. Factions will wax and wane, and the PCs might consider them to
be background noise or may wish to get involved.

[The mighty deeds and heroic changes accomplished by PCs override the
faction system. If a faction has the Feature \"A brilliant Eldritch
sorcerer serves the king.\" and the PCs go and kill that sorcerer in the
course of an adventure, then that Feature is lost to the faction. No die
rolls are involved; the NPC is dead because the PCs killed him. By the
same token, if a PC spends the Dominion to enact a change in the nation
and create a powerful war college of magically-imbued pupils, then that
nation gets it as a Feature, assuming the PC is cooperating. PC
adventures and heroism can directly change the Features or solve the
Problems of the factions they deal with.]{.CharOverride-15}

[As the GM, you should embrace this. When the PCs hear that a
sympathetic faction is in trouble, it\'s free adventure content for you.
All you need to do is apply statistics to the relevant NPCs in the
situation, brew up a quick challenge or two that fits what they\'re
trying to overcome, and you\'ve got a decent chunk of gaming content
ready for deployment. If the PCs succeed, they can immediately see
results when their allies gain a new Feature or are freed of a lurking
Problem.]{.CharOverride-15}

[Great changes come with a price, however. When a Godbound creates a new
Feature with their actions, the faction automatically gains a one-point
Problem related to the backlash the change causes. Somebody who lost out
in the change is angry, or some locals are upset with the new order, and
the PCs will have to either calm the situation or endure the increased
disorder in the community. ]{.CharOverride-13}
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer198 .Single-Column}
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------
  An Impoverished Raktian Village                                                                                   
  [Power:]{.CharOverride-7}         1                                              [Action Die:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6
  [Cohesion:]{.CharOverride-7}      1                                              [Trouble:]{.CharOverride-7}      4
  [Features:]{.CharOverride-7}      No Features aid the desperate villagers.                                        
  [Problems:]{.CharOverride-7}      Nezdohvan nobles raid the village for sport.                                    1 point
                                    Their lord taxes them cruelly.                                                  1 point
                                    The villagers have lost all hope.                                               2 points
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer199 .Single-Column}
+------------------+------------------+------------------+---------+
| Xilong, a city   |                  |                  |         |
| in the Dulimbai  |                  |                  |         |
| Regency          |                  |                  |         |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+---------+
| [Power:]{        | 2                | [Action          | 1d8     |
| .CharOverride-7} |                  | Die:]{           |         |
|                  |                  | .CharOverride-7} |         |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+---------+
| [Cohesion:]{     | 2                | [Trouble:]{      | 2       |
| .CharOverride-7} |                  | .CharOverride-7} |         |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+---------+
| [Features:]{     | The famed Bronze |                  |         |
| .CharOverride-7} | Collegium there  |                  |         |
|                  | teaches arts     |                  |         |
|                  | both magical and |                  |         |
|                  | mundane.         |                  |         |
|                  |                  |                  |         |
|                  | Xilong is a      |                  |         |
|                  | proud jewel of   |                  |         |
|                  | the Regency, and |                  |         |
|                  | the Regent is    |                  |         |
|                  | inclined to aid  |                  |         |
|                  | it in need.      |                  |         |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+---------+
| [Problems:]{     | Collegium        |                  | 1 point |
| .CharOverride-7} | so               |                  |         |
|                  | rcerer-academics |                  |         |
|                  | scheme to seize  |                  |         |
|                  | control of the   |                  |         |
|                  | city\'s ruling   |                  |         |
|                  | magistrate.      |                  |         |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+---------+
|                  | Patrian agents   |                  | 1 point |
|                  | of terror strive |                  |         |
|                  | to disrupt the   |                  |         |
|                  | city\'s trade    |                  |         |
|                  | and peace.       |                  |         |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+---------+
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer200 .Single-Column}
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| The Unitary      |                  |                  |          |
| Church of Patria |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| [Power:]{        | 3                | [Action          | 1d10     |
| .CharOverride-7} |                  | Die:]{           |          |
|                  |                  | .CharOverride-7} |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| [Cohesion:]{     | 3                | [Trouble:]{      | 3        |
| .CharOverride-7} |                  | .CharOverride-7} |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| [Features:]{     | Most Patrians    |                  |          |
| .CharOverride-7} | are loyal        |                  |          |
|                  | servants of the  |                  |          |
|                  | faith.           |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
|                  | The church is    |                  |          |
|                  | extremely        |                  |          |
|                  | wealthy.         |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
|                  | Many secrets are |                  |          |
|                  | confessed to its |                  |          |
|                  | priests.         |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| [Problems:]{     | The Patrian      |                  | 2 points |
| .CharOverride-7} | emperor tends to |                  |          |
|                  | view the church  |                  |          |
|                  | as his property. |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Reformist        |                  | 1 point  |
|                  | priests are      |                  |          |
|                  | disrupting the   |                  |          |
|                  | church with      |                  |          |
|                  | their demands.   |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer201 .Single-Column}
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| The Ulstang      |                  |                  |          |
| Skerries         |                  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| [Power:]{        | 4                | [Action          | 1d12     |
| .CharOverride-7} |                  | Die:]{           |          |
|                  |                  | .CharOverride-7} |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| [Cohesion:]{     | 4                | [Trouble:]{      | 5        |
| .CharOverride-7} |                  | .CharOverride-7} |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| [Features:]{     | The Witch-Queens |                  |          |
| .CharOverride-7} | have mighty      |                  |          |
|                  | magics.          |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
|                  | Ulstang raiders  |                  |          |
|                  | rule the         |                  |          |
|                  | northern waves.  |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
|                  | Draugr thralls   |                  |          |
|                  | labor with blind |                  |          |
|                  | obedience.       |                  |          |
|                  |                  |                  |          |
|                  | Outsiders find   |                  |          |
|                  | it very hard to  |                  |          |
|                  | blend secretly.  |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
| [Problems:]{     | Their neighbors  |                  | 2 points |
| .CharOverride-7} | seek their ruin. |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | The Witch-Queens |                  | 2 points |
|                  | squabble         |                  |          |
|                  | constantly       |                  |          |
|                  | amongst          |                  |          |
|                  | themselves.      |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
|                  | Ulstang\'s       |                  | 1 point  |
|                  | living           |                  |          |
|                  | inhabitants      |                  |          |
|                  | scorn honest     |                  |          |
|                  | work as          |                  |          |
|                  | degrading.       |                  |          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer202 .Text-Frame}
An Example of Faction Play

The miserably impoverished village of Kistelek in the Raktine
Confederacy, has turned out to be of consequence. One of the PCs hails
from the place, and has mentioned that their goal is enriching their
friends and neighbors. To simplify things, the GM lifts the example poor
village writeup from the opposite page for the faction\'s statistics.

As the game starts, the PCs are too busy dealing with their newfound
powers to pay much attention to Kistelek. The GM decides to run a
faction turn with just the village to see how they do alone. Rather than
pick a goal from the lists, the GM decides that Kistelek\'s leaders are
just trying to pull themselves together. They take no external action,
and take the internal action of Build Strength. The GM rolls the
village\'s 1d6 action die in a Trouble check, and rolls a 4. This is
equal or less than the village\'s Trouble, so the effort fails. By
comparing the result to the village\'s Problems list, the GM sees that
the villagers\' general hopelessness defeated their headman\'s attempt
to rally them, and nothing useful was accomplished.

At the end of the first adventure session, the heroic PCs have driven
back a mechanical Nezdohvan boyar and his pack of artificial hounds. The
GM decides that this smashing defeat eliminates the village\'s related
Problem. No die rolls or Trouble checks are needed, because the outcome
was simply the natural result of PC actions.

Furthermore, one of the PCs, a Godbound of the Sword, is determined to
help the village, and wants to raise a corps of trained warriors from
the village folk. This is the sort of thing a Godbound of the Sword
should be able to do, and it\'s not implausible as a feat. The Godbound
isn\'t trying to make them exceptionally skilled, so the GM calls it a
Probable change, with a cost of 1 Influence to enact.

The Godbound Commits the Influence. If he leaves for good, the militia
will crumble, but for as long as he\'s there to hold it together,
Kistelek now has a Feature: \"The village has a band of trained
warriors.\" If he wanted it to last beyond his departure, he\'d have to
pay Dominion to cement the act.

This change affronts the neighboring boyar, however, and so the village
gets a 1-point Problem, \"A Nezdohvan boyar considers them a threat.\"
The GM decides he is a major noble, and his domain counts as a Power 2
faction. One Feature it has is \"A band of autocossacks serves the
boyar\". He sends it to burn Kistelek to the ground.

The PCs are away on other business when the autocossacks clank in. The
boyar\'s desired change is \"The village has been burnt.\" The villagers
oppose the autocossacks with their trained band; without it, they would
have lost the Conflict automatically. They roll a 4, however, while the
boyar rolls a 7. He wins the Conflict.

The villagers could take a point of Cohesion damage, but that would
destroy the village. They could accept another point of Problems in
\"All our huts have been burnt.\", leaving them shivering. Instead, the
village elders sacrifice the young warriors, who fight desperately to
the last spearman and drive off the automatons. The village loses the
Feature they so recently gained.

The PCs return to the wailing of the widows and the weeping of orphans.
Furious, the Godbound protector wishes to raise a new band of warriors,
but with so many dead, he must draw from the old and the less fitting.
It becomes an Improbable change, requiring 2 Influence points to be
committed, and makes the boyar even angrier, making him a 2-point
Problem. The village has 5 points of Problems now; one more, and it will
collapse into chaos.

Together, the PCs agree that this brass boyar must die to save the
village. They tell the GM of their plans, and the GM spends the downtime
between then and the next session to brew up a proper challenge for
them, using the Court creation tools and automaton statistics from the
Bestiary chapter. The heroes hammer the pitiless brass tyrant during the
next session\'s adventure and scatter his minions to the Nezdohvan
winds. The village\'s boyar Problem vanishes entirely, leaving it only
with its grasping lord and its own habit of despair.

As part of the denouement of the adventure, the PCs offer the village\'s
Raktian lord a large chunk of the boyar\'s wealth to relinquish his
claim on the hamlet. Seeing the consequences of angering the pantheon
and greedy for gold, the lord finds it prudent to give control of the
village over to the PCs. The GM decides that this sudden liberation has
fired the villagers with hope. They\'re too inured to sorrow to lose all
their native despair, but the GM reduces that Problem to 1 point. Thus,
the village has only a single point of Problems left and no immediate
enemies in the vicinity.

These recent adventures have earned the PCs some Dominion, and they\'re
determined to spend it making Kistelek into a proper jewel of divine
oversight. The Godbound of the Sword spends 2 Dominion to cement their
training of the local militia, making it a persistent Feature that will
last even after they leave and are no longer in a position to run
regular drills with their Influence.

Creating permanent Features puts stress on a faction, however, as
indicated on page
[[132]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor133).
The GM decides that the Kistelek militia is a little
[too]{.CharOverride-2} enthusiastic about their newfound martial
prowess, and their brash flexing of might is causing quarrels with their
neighbors. The GM adds a \"The militia is making trouble with
neighbors.\" Problem at a 1 point value.

Another Godbound has just achieved second level, and decides that it\'s
time to start pulling together their cult. They consider trying to add
that fact to Kistelek, but they decide that the rest of the pantheon may
not be too enthusiastic about them grabbing the worship of the villagers
for their own benefit. Instead, they enlist the serfs of the defeated
boyar, who are suitably overwhelmed by the terrifying might of the PCs.
The would-be divinity performs several beneficial miracles with their
Word of Fertility, and soon the hungry serfs have mustered enough
courage to defy the priests of the Unitary Church and the wrath of the
metal nobles of their land.

It\'s not the most auspicious start to a cult, but there are enough
serfs to form a Power 1 Faction as the Godbound\'s cult. The Godbound
decides that their demands are relatively few; they insist on a basic
moral code and a weekly day of worship, but it\'s no great burden on the
believers. This easygoing faith inflicts no extra Problems on the new
faction, but it also means the Domain it offers is minimal, granting the
new divinity only 1 point of Dominion each month.

The GM also decides that certain Problems are inevitable for the cult\'s
Faction, given its environment. The GM assigns a 2-point Problem, \"The
priests of the Unitary Church are outraged at this apostasy\", as the
Church is powerful in Nezdohva. The neighboring boyars are likely to be
equally upset at the violent disposal of one of their own kind, so the
GM adds another 2-point Problem of \"The neighboring boyars plot to
destroy the cult.\" That leaves the new-born cult with four points of
Problems, when six points is enough to destroy it. If the troubles
overwhelm it, the PC will have to find fresh devotees.

The other heroes want to start their own cults as well, but it\'s clear
that the neighborhood is not friendly to religious innovation. The group
discusses this, and soon enough it\'s decided to make friends with the
boyars. With this decision, the GM now knows to prepare a few Court
challenges for next time, and the session ends.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer203 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor139}Example
Faction Features

A faction\'s Features include all the tools it usually uses to deal with
its problems and advance its own interests. Not every Feature is useful
for dealing with every problem or accomplishing every change, but
Features represent those qualities that can actually get things done in
a faction. A faction without any Features is too dispirited,
uncoordinated, or enfeebled to accomplish much.

Some factions may mention powerful resources in the written description
you make of them. A Black Academy in the Raktines might have a
half-dozen mighty sorcerers among their number, along with powerful
magical artifacts and a universally-dreaded reputation among their
neighbors. If these things aren\'t called out as Features, however,
they\'re not things that the academy can effectively control and direct
toward its shared advantage. The sorcerers won\'t cooperate, the magical
artifacts are too dangerous to control, and the dire reputation makes
people fearfully resist them as often as they submit.

Other Features are made of multiple parts. The Black Academy might have
a Feature such as \"The Academy has three powerful Eldritch sorcerers in
their service, each of whom can use the theurgic invocations hidden
there.\" As the GM, you might decide that means that all three sorcerers
have to be eliminated before the Academy can no longer use the Feature.
Optionally, you might specify it down more exactly, giving each of those
three sorcerers a different magical specialty. This would increase the
scope of the Feature and make it applicable to more situations, but the
loss of a specific sorcerer would then make the Feature useless for
their manner of magic.

The examples here provide some suggestions for appropriate Features. As
always, you should tweak these to fit specific faction realities.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer204 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  d20                     Economic Features
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A great merchant prince is part of the group
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A large supply of some rare resource is there
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A lineage of magically-gifted artisans is there
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    A magical blessing produces a kind of wealth
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    A useful industry has many artisans working there
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    All walks of life are efficiently employed there
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    An ancient factory produces something rare
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Artisan guilds exist and are all obedient to the rulers
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Many groups owe them a great deal of money
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The people have a very rich standard of living
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The rulers can easily raise taxes without strife
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Their banking connections summon gold at need
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   Their land is remarkably rich and fertile
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   They are skilled at smuggling and its prevention
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   They endure hardship and want without complaint
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   They have great funds of stored wealth
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   They have multiple trade pacts with neighbors
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   They have vast herds of livestock and horses
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   They make goods other locations can\'t produce
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   They produce an addictive pleasure for export
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer205 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
  d20                     Cultural Features
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A habit of guile aids them in secret schemes
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A profound sage and their disciples live there
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A religious cult is absolutely loyal to the rulers
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    A school there teaches to great fame elsewhere
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    A sense of honor protects against conspiracies
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    A strong missionary religion is headquartered there
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    An exquisite art is crafted only by them
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Disputes are peaceful and open rather than bloody
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Medical and hygienic knowledge is excellent there
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   People trust each other and merit that trust
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Some religious or social service is only had there
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   The people have faith in their leaders\' wisdom
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   The rulers have enormous historical legitimacy
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   Their cultural prestige attracts many visitors
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   Their people are famed for seductive charm
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   They are a well-educated and rational people
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   They have adamant confidence in their customs
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'re united in a spirit of shared sacrifice
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'ve a musical or performance tradition of fame
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   Useful exiles and usurpers find safety there
  ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer206 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
  d20                     Military Features
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A band of mercenaries is loyal to the ruler\'s coin
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A chokehold exists on a militarily-critical pass or river
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A magical beast or similar entity fights for the faction
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    A mighty refuge they have is reputed to be untakeable
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    A particular lineage of locals has tremendous prowess
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    A protective blessing blights hostile invaders
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    A tradition of martial prowess is honored by the people
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Excellent scouts alert them in time to respond
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Exceptional fortifications exist around vital points
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Old defenses were built along the usual invasion lines
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The faction has a corps of fighters with odd weapons
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   Their forces mobilize and respond with extreme speed
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   They have a small but extremely proficient military
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   They have masses of shoddy but expendable troops
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   They have very mobile troops, via horse or vehicle
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'ve a guerrilla tradition that invaders dread facing
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'ve a well-trained group of professional soldiers
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'ve an old alliance with a major local military force
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'ve caches of advanced weaponry, possibly magic
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   They\'ve protective pacts with a mighty entity
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer207 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor140}Example
Faction Problems

Every Problem that a faction has should be a seed for adventure. Every
affliction that troubles a group should have room in it for PC
involvement, either as a source of help or as a weak point in an enemy
faction\'s armor. Problems help add color and flavor to a faction\'s
travails, but their real value to you as a GM is as an easy adventure
hook.

The Problems listed here are just a brief selection of the
possibilities. When possible, you should personalize a Problem and give
it a face the PCs can focus on. If you\'ve got a bandit group plaguing a
village, spare a few words about the bandit chief leading them. If
you\'ve got a nefarious band of sinister religious \"reformers\"
undermining a city\'s major temple, give the chief a name and
description. If the PCs decide to go after the Problem, it makes it
easier to direct their focus, and even if they don\'t it helps give you
a name to hang recent events on.

If it looks like the PCs are going to end up clashing directly with a
Problem, you might want to take a little time to prep some statistics
for it, whether in combat stats for the leadership and enforcers, a
mini-dungeon of some major headquarters they use, or a court challenge
for a more political problem. That way, if the PCs take it into their
head to deal with the problem on a more personal basis, you won\'t have
to pause to fabricate the details in play.

It usually takes a session\'s worth of play to solve one point worth of
Problems. If the difficulty is far beneath the PCs\' scale, such as a
bandit chief versus a pantheon of Godbound, they might be able to
extinguish it entirely in just a few scenes. Even much larger problems
can be wrapped up rapidly if the PCs are able to find out who\'s
responsible for them, and then deal with them in the fashion for which
PCs are famously known.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer208 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
  d20                     Economic Problems
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A major chunk of the populace is kept nonproductive
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A major religion teaches scorn for material goods
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A parasite class has the right to loot the faction\'s wealth
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Guilds are both strong and careless of the faction\'s need
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Productive work is sneered at as base and contemptible
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Religious tithes or customary taxes beggar many
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Ritual demands and sacrifices cripple local industry
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Technical expertise is jealously guarded by its keepers
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The faction has a social structure that creates poverty
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The faction has very little cash in circulation
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The faction is desperately short of natural resources
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   The faction is paying off a crippling foreign debt
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   The faction\'s technology is extremely backward
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   The local currency is debased and near-worthless
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   The most productive sub-group is scorned and despised
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   The people enviously pull down the successful
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   The rulers are trying to run the economy, badly
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   The rulers keep wasting wealth on selfish indulgence
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   The wealthy and the rulers are in constant conflict
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   Vital production relies on a restive serf or slave class
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer209 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
  d20                     Cultural Problems
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A hostile neighbor propagandizes the faction\'s people
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A local religion is pushing for a very bad idea
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A local religion makes constant, painful demands
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    A sub-group is convinced it should be ruling the polity
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    A sub-group nurses a bitter grudge against the rulers
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    A tedious local custom slows and hinders projects
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Decadent leadership is always seeking new vices
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Ethnic strife boils up on a regular basis in the faction
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    Idealistic reformers are tearing down vital institutions
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Leadership is divided between uncooperative rivals
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   Multiple religious factions are always feuding
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   The commoners are ignorant, brutish, and venal
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   The faction lacks confidence and falls easily into despair
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   The local nobility is corrupt and does anything for cash
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   The people demand the rulers seek an impossible goal
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   The rulers are blindly convinced of their own wisdom
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   The rulers have very little actual control over the people
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   The ruling class is impressively incompetent
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   Their neighbors send agents to destabilize them
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   Two or more castes are constantly fighting each other
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer210 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
  d20                     Military Problems
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    A grasping noble is embezzling vital military funds
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    A rival power is launching deniable raids
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    A terrible monster scourges the faction
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Bandits are plaguing the faction\'s periphery
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Hostile migrants seek to claim land in the polity
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Mercenaries are running amok after not being paid
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Rebel guerrillas are striking deep within the faction
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Soldiers have been used as workers until they can\'t fight
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The army extorts the citizenry like a pack of bandits
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   The army has a reason to hate the current rulers
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   The army is led by a discreet would-be usurper of rule
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   The army is led by an irreplaceable well-born idiot
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   The army is so disorganized that it\'s near-useless
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   The army is so underfunded it\'s practically starving
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   The army\'s hidebound with antiquated gear and habits
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   The faction holds soldiers and warfare in contempt
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   The military is broken into mutually-hostile factions
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   The military is locked in constant low-level policing
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   The military lacks morale after a terrible defeat
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   The elite are painfully reluctant to employ needed force
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer211 .Single-Column}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor141}Foes
of Heaven

A Bestiary of Grim Opponents and Dire Entities
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer212 .Text-Frame}
A hero is most often measured by the might of their opposition. The
ordinary run of men and women can never hope to challenge the might of a
determined pantheon of Godbound, so a GM in search of more martial
challenges is obliged to look farther afield. A mob of angry peasants
might be enough to concern a lone, inexperienced Godbound, but a
pantheon of more hardened heroes will need foes worthy of their
celestial steel.

This chapter will give you a selection of worthy enemies to pit against
your heroes and provide the tools for fashioning your own grim enemies
and fell-handed foes.

Player Characters and the Rest

Enemies and other non-player characters use slightly different rules
than player characters. In most cases, it\'s just not important to flesh
out these entities with all the details and subtleties of a player
character. The origins, professional background, and personal
relationships of Bandit #12 are going to be potentially relevant for the
half-second it takes for the Burning Sword Queen to avulse his component
parts, and if you spent ten minutes of prep time developing these
things, that\'s ten minutes of prep time you\'ve spent in vain.

The statistics and rules in this section help you build the simpler,
more playable stat blocks of monstrous foes and faceless minions,
focusing on only those things that are most likely to be important
during combat. While it\'s possible to build Godbound enemies as you
would a player character, that kind of effort is unlikely to be fruitful
if the PCs are only ever likely to encounter their enemy on the field of
battle.

But what of more peaceful pursuits? How is a GM to determine what an NPC
can do off the battlefield? What powers do they have to mold their
surroundings, and what special abilities do they possess that haven\'t
any relationship to martial struggle?

As the GM, you\'ll decide these things when and if they become relevant.
Your time and energy is limited, and it\'s important not to spend a
half-hour brewing up content that you\'ll never use at the table. If
it\'s enjoyable for you, that\'s another matter, but if you\'re building
a foe for purely pragmatic ends, let your energy be turned toward the
parts that are most likely to be important during play. Background
details should be saved for the times when they really are important.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor142}Supernaturals
and Mortal Enemies

Most of the potential combatants the PCs are going to encounter will be
perfectly normal mortals. Normal mortals have no special combat
abilities, no supernatural powers, and usually no more than 1 hit die.
Lone mortals pose almost no threat to a Godbound, and it\'s only in
large Mobs that they start to concern those demigods who haven\'t made a
point of honing their combat skills.

The real opposition for the PCs will be monsters or supernatural
entities of some variety. These foes will usually have magical powers
and uncommon hardihood, and be fearsome enough to make even divine
heroes sweat. Some monsters might be minor beasts or lesser aberrations
that have few hit dice and pose little threat, but the greater enemies
can send a full pantheon running.

Powerful supernatural foes usually have the following basic powers:

-   Only magical weapons can harm them, along with spells, gifts, open
    flame, and other magical or energy-based attacks.
-   Their attacks always count as magical weapons for purposes of
    overcoming such defenses.
-   They can Commit Effort to automatically succeed at saving throws,
    just as Godbound can.
-   Many such foes roll attack damage dice \"straight\", applying the
    full total of the dice and not comparing it to the damage chart.

A creature qualifies as a
\"[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker339}powerful
supernatural foe\" if it has 10 or more hit dice and the GM thinks it\'s
appropriate. Lesser foes may have some or all of these abilities as
well, and some otherwise-mighty foes may lack some of these gifts.

It\'s possible for ordinary men and women to gain some of these powers
if they are truly heroic examples of their kind. The great heroes of a
nation almost all can Commit Effort to succeed on saves, for example,
and they may have access to techniques and skills that mimic the gifts
of a Word. Some entities that were born human might eventually qualify
as a supernatural foe thanks to their relentless acquisition of magical
powers or their determined self-cultivation.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer213 .Text-Frame}
Godbound In Combat

Not all Godbound are particularly focused on combat prowess. A hero who
chooses the spheres of Fertility, Wealth, and Knowledge has a vast
number of options for manipulating the world, but they're going to be
shorter on direct combat capacity than their peer who chose Sword,
Endurance, and Alacrity. Even so, every Godbound has a certain degree of
martial capacity, and as the GM, you should be ready to remind a new
player of these options when necessary.

The two biggest universal tools are the [Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3}
and [Corona of Fury]{.CharOverride-3} universal gifts. Every Word has
access to these gifts, and even heroes who haven't picked them up can
use them as miracles for a lengthier Effort commitment. With them, every
Godbound can reliably inflict substantial damage every round they use
the power, melting away major opponents in a hurry. [Corona of
Fury]{.CharOverride-3} is particularly effective in clearing out Mobs,
as its area-effect damage is rolled straight against Mobs that have
significant numbers within its blast.

The main limits on both of these gifts are that neither of them can be
used two rounds in a row, and each of them require Effort commitment at
least for the scene, if not for the whole day if used as a miracle.
They're good powers to invoke when facing a major opponent or in some
dire personal combat, but they're too expensive as miracles to use
casually.

Non-combatant Godbound still have the power to invoke useful miracles or
suppress hostile gifts with appropriate Words. While the war-gods are
wading into the fight, the more peaceful heroes can be stamping down on
enemy gifts and using their abilities to shape the battlefield and boost
their allies. This can exhaust them quickly if they don't have any
appropriate gifts mastered, but the extra actions they provide a party
can be crucial in a major combat.

Finally, every Godbound still has their Fray dice. Against lesser foes,
even a strictly pacifistic hero is still defeating a certain number of
hit dice worth of them every round just by being on the battlefield.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor143}Judging
Appropriate Opposition

It can be tricky to figure out what level of opposition is appropriate
for a given pantheon of Godbound. Even if you're creating strictly
sandbox-style enemies, where the opposing force is whatever it would
logically be rather than an enemy scaled to the PCs' capabilities, a GM
generally wants to know how tough a given opponent will be if the PCs
end up fighting them. A few basic rules of thumb can help you figure out
whether or not a foe is a serious fight.

A creature meant to be a serious threat to a pantheon should have at
least one attack per PC per round, and this attack should do straight
damage. Thus, a creature with two actions per round and three attacks
per action is a fit match for a six-PC pantheon, assuming those attacks
do straight damage. You can be an attack short or long on this, but a
drastic mismatch means that the creature can\'t put out enough damage to
threaten the PCs before they swamp it.

For conversion purposes, count 2-3 normal attacks as being equal to one
straight-damage attack. Thus, if there are four PCs, 8 attacks doing
1d10 or 1d12 normal damage or 10 attacks doing 1d6 or 1d8 damage would
be a significant threat to the group.

For hit dice, the creature should have a total of ten hit dice, plus
twice the total levels of the PCs. Thus, if a pantheon of three
third-level PCs needs a real fight, the foe should have at least 19 hit
dice. Dial this total up by 25% or so if the creature hasn\'t got any
minions or other distractions for the PCs to throw their attacks at; if
it\'s the lone target in the fight, it\'s going to get hammered hard.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor144}Creature
Reactions and Parleying

While the creatures in this section all have combat statistics, not
every encounter is going to instantly devolve into a bloody struggle.
Even in the depths of a sinister ruin, intelligent entities will respond
to intruders as seems wisest, and that doesn\'t always mean a mob attack
from the dark.

When you need to determine the general attitude of a potential foe,
first decide what the most likely outcome of the exchange will be. This
might be an instant attack, or a wary retreat in search of better
grounds for an engagement, or a cautious demand to know what the heroes
are doing in the place.

Next, roll 2d6. A roll of 7 means that the creature acts in the most
likely way. The lower the roll, the more violent and hostile the
reaction, with a roll of 2 meaning the creature is as hostile as could
be plausible for the exchange. A high roll means that the thing is
friendlier than usual, with a 12 resulting in the most peaceful or
sociable result likely for the encounter. If the PCs appear friendly and
are trying to negotiate with the thing, apply the negotiator\'s Charisma
modifier to the roll, along with any spot modifiers you might choose for
particularly persuasive or unappealing diplomatic efforts.

Magical gifts or appropriate Words might factor into a reaction roll.
Persuasive Words can easily calm any but determined enemies.

Keep in mind the overall desires and intentions of these entities. The
adventure creation section of this book helps you brew up monstrous
groups with their own plans and desires, and if the PCs look like
they\'d be assets in that, an intelligent group of creatures will try to
enlist them. The wealth of the ruin, secrets known to the group, or
offers of free passage or aid might all be made in exchange for the
PCs\' help with whatever it is the entities are trying to accomplish.
Only the most savage or territorial creatures will just blindly attack
intruders unless they\'ve already penetrated into the group\'s home
terrain and threaten their more vulnerable or important members.

Even when negotiations break down into violence, creatures will respond
to it in a rational way. If the heroes carve a bloody road through the
group, they\'re not going to simply stand there and take it until
they\'re wiped out entirely unless they\'re mindless or fanatical.
Survivors will flee and concentrate on avoiding the intruders, waiting
until they\'re safely away to resume their old territory, or leaving
entirely for fear that the awful heroes might return. Other groups might
seek aid from neighbors, banding together in mutual fear.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor145}Morale

Morale is a special score only recorded for NPCs. When a foe finds
itself pressed by grave danger, it must make a Morale check, rolling 2d6
and trying to roll equal or less than its Morale total. If it rolls
higher than its score, it loses its will to fight. It might flee, seek
cover, make a withdrawal, or do anything else that seems likely to save
its hide. PCs never make Morale checks, even those obliged by a gift.

The circumstances necessary to trigger a Morale check will depend on the
creature and the situation. Ordinary civilians need to make one as soon
as the prospect of lethal violence is presented, while soldiers and
experienced combatants can usually keep going until one of their
comrades is actually killed. Further severe losses or an overwhelming
foe might force an additional Morale check, but any group that manages
to make two Morale checks will usually keep fighting until it's
obviously pointless. Truly fanatical or desperate warriors might even
fight to the death, though most normal humans will prefer not to throw
their lives away if any hope of mercy remains.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer214 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor146}Dark
and Terrible Foes

The pages that follow give a taste of some of the more ominous foes that
a pantheon of Godbound might encounter in their realm. While these
creatures are by no means the only perils they might face, they give a
GM a general idea of the kind of opposition a band of young demigods
might duel. Further rules after the monster listing give tips on
creating your own horrific enemies of divine justice.

Creature Stat Blocks

Each enemy is listed with a block of statistics describing the average
example of their kind. As the GM, you can always adjust these statistics
to fit the particular situation, especially when foes might have better
armor or more novel weapons than those usually expected.

Some foes have multiple attacks per round, usually expressed as
something like "+10 x 3 attacks". This means that for every action the
creature takes to attack, it can make three attack rolls at +10 to hit.
They can spread these attacks among any creatures within range.

The movement rating of a creature indicates how many feet it can travel
with a single round's movement. If it chooses to use an action to move
again, it can add an additional increment of distance to the movement.
Foes locked in melee with an enemy need to spend an action disengaging
before they move away, or else they draw a free attack from any melee
enemy as they pull away from it.

Some powerful foes are noted as having more than one action in a round.
Where ordinary combatants can move and act once in a turn, these enemies
can move and act two or more times. Each action can be a full attack
sequence, an additional move, a use of a gift or special power, or any
other activity that takes about six seconds to complete.

Creature Tactics

Many foes are provided with a tactics table describing some of the
things that creature might do during a round of combat. Intelligent
creatures will usually pick the wisest course for their situation, but
you can roll on it if you wish to reflect a creature that might be taken
up in the excitement of the moment, or one that lacks a human intellect.

Unless otherwise specified, the results on the tactics chart take up
only one action of a creature's round. Thus, enemies that have multiple
actions each round might use the table several times, or just use it
once and save the rest of their activity for smiting their insolent
foes.

Creatures and Gifts

Some creatures are noted as having gifts at their disposal. For these
creatures, you should flip through the Word section of the book and pick
a few gifts appropriate to the entity's theme and nature, choosing those
most likely to matter in a confrontation. Use half the creature's hit
dice for level-dependent effects of the gift, rounded up, up to a
maximum of 10 for gifts used by creatures of 20 hit dice or more.

Other creatures have access to entire Words, and may Commit Effort for
the day to create miracles in line with those powers. You might want to
print off the relevant Word page for quick reference at the table, or
else spend a few minutes scribbling down a few likely Word miracles it
might use in your notes.

In most cases, these powers aren't actual Words or actual gifts; they're
just convenient shorthand for describing how their powers work. Major
supernatural creatures may wield forces capable of matching a Godbound's
gifts, but most ordinary foes with these lesser talents treat them as
inferior to true gifts when attempting to dispel or overcome divine
magic. As the GM, decide whether or not these abilities really are
divine when brewing up the foe.

Powerful supernatural foes can burn Effort to automatically succeed at
saving throws they'd otherwise fail, just as Godbound can do. This is a
crucial ability for avoiding one-shot save-or-die powers.

Most extremely powerful entities also have access to a wide variety of
other thematically-appropriate powers when it comes to shaping their
lairs, controlling their servants, or influencing the environment around
them. These are left for the GM to rule as needed, as they aren't
normally the sort of powers that can be used in combat.

Untouchable Foes

Most powerful supernatural creatures require the use of magical weapons
to harm them. Low magic spells, theurgy, open flame, or other magical or
energy-based sources of harm can also usually harm these entities.
Extremely dramatic mundane trauma can also sometimes qualify, at the
GM\'s discretion, should some Eldritch sorcerer-king decide to stick his
head in the muzzle of a magnetic cannon.

Such supernatural creatures always count as using magical weapons with
their own attacks, even if they\'re nothing more than the
impossibly-sharp claws of an Uncreated horror or the eldritch blasts of
a parasite god\'s wrath. The attacks of a Godbound PC only count as
magical if they are actually using a magical weapon or have a gift that
imbues their attack with magical power.

Most mortals will have no way to defend themselves from such entities.
Salvaged magical weapons from the Former Empires or newer products of
arcane artificers might be salvation for those few who possess them, but
most peasant villages have nothing but useless superstition and garbled
hedge-spells to fall back on.

When faced with such horrors, most communities are forced to call for
aid from their overlords or make bargains with such roving defenders as
the Raktine Curse-Eaters or the Invocatant Knights of Ancalia. In some
cases, the villagers find themselves forced to make other kinds of
bargains, offering the creature whatever it desires in exchange for the
lives of their families.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer215 .Sidebar}
Enemies Doing Straight Damage

Most major enemies roll their damage straight, doing the full die result
instead of comparing it to the damage table. Why is this the case?

From a strict design perspective, it\'s because five PCs versus one
nemesis would be a very short fight otherwise. Major foes need straight
damage to hurt a full PC pantheon badly enough to cancel out the
pantheon\'s advantage in numbers.

From a narrative viewpoint, there are two reasons. Some entities are
just so incredibly powerful that their attacks are overwhelmingly
strong. Angelic tyrants, Made Gods, powerful parasite gods, and other
mighty divine entities are just so strong that their blows do straight
damage.

For lesser foes, it\'s a function of focus and self-restriction. These
enemies have made dark pacts, or sacrificed their supernatural
potential, or focused their abilities so completely that their attacks
are exceptionally powerful. A PC Godbound that tried to do the same
might attain such power eventually, but only at the cost of sacrifices
that would cripple their potential as a hero.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer216 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker340}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor147}Angels

The angels are the dwellers in the shadow of God. The first-formed
children of the One, most served for uncounted ages in the luminous
halls of Heaven, maintaining the order of creation and sustaining the
celestial engines. Others guarded the gates of Hell and stoked the
flames of purification by which sinful souls were burnt clean. They were
not perfect in their contentment, imperfect creations that they were,
but they served, and they were satisfied.

This all changed when the ancients stormed the walls of Heaven and
unleashed the Made Gods on the celestial realm. The angels fought
desperately to preserve their charges, but the Made Gods were too strong
and their human servants too numerous. The angels were driven from
Heaven and forced to take refuge in the flames of Hell below.

There they have nursed their bitterness, and Hell has been the worse for
it. Its flames no longer cleanse the wicked and its engines of
redemption no longer turn. The angels have decided that if humanity is
determined to destroy all creation with their hateful meddling, then it
is only proper that their souls be trapped here to receive the fruits of
their usurpation. No soul is to be allowed to transcend. The angels will
not rest until every human is safely and eternally chained within the
fires of Hell.

It is difficult and dangerous for an angel to ascend to the crumbling
world above, but some risk the journey to plant the seeds of false
faiths and empty cults. They present themselves as gods and saints and
strive to corrupt any creed that might keep a believer's soul away from
Hell's flames. The most powerful of the Host can even pry loose those
souls protected by true rituals, though few angels of such power can
fold themselves into the fragile shapes of the mortal world.

Still, not every angel is an enemy of humankind. Some still hold to
their ancient purpose, determined to carry out the will of the One even
if the Creator is no longer to be found. The greatest of these loyalists
is the Warden of Hell, Sammael, the archangel of death. While he and his
fellows are not strong enough to stand against Hell's new masters, they
use their old knowledge to hide in Hell's hidden places and aid those
who would free the damned or set Hell's purification engines back into
motion. Sammael despises his brethren for their perversion of his old
domain, and will go to great lengths to aid heroes who work to restore
it.

Angels in Play

Angels are extremely dangerous foes, and even the least of them is a
threat to an entire pantheon of novice Godbound. They were born directly
from the will of the One, or some source akin to that, and still retain
a shadow of the implacable power of their creator.

Angels are usually found alone, carrying out some errand in Hell or
seeking to perform some sabotage in Heaven. They no longer seek the
preservation of the world, and now try to wreck the engines and destroy
the pillars that uphold the decaying realms. The sooner that everything
is reduced to Uncreated Night, the sooner they can raise a perfected
world free from human evil.

A very few angels are found in the realm, most often masquerading as a
god or secretly guiding a faith to some perverse new practice. The more
stained and sinful the souls they receive, the easier it is to keep them
trapped in Hell. The angels care nothing for the suffering such evil
causes in the world above. The only thing that keeps these agents from
revealing their natures more directly is the knowledge that other
powerful entities can find many uses for their ichors and parts.

Angelic Powers and Appearance

Every angel has the following special abilities, in addition to whatever
additional powers might be granted by its nature or cunning.

-   [Unmade:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A wrathful angel is an engine of supernal
    destruction. All damage dice it inflicts with its normal attacks are
    read straight.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Unfettered:]{.Bolded-Run-In} An angel has an invincible defense
    against all effects that read or affect its mind or emotions. It can
    give false readings to any effects that would pry into its thoughts
    or true nature.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Unborn:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Angels were created, not born, and they
    were created to maintain an aspect of natural law. They may create
    miracles related to that aspect as if they were a Godbound bound to
    that Word, at the usual cost in Effort. Powerful angels often
    develop gifts similar to those of the Godbound.

Angels appear in many different guises, and some have the power to take
seemingly human forms. Most were never meant to pass for mortal,
however, and appear as gigantic humanoid entities, usually twice as tall
as a man and burning with the inner light of their natures. Even the
inhuman and bestial ones have an alien beauty to them that speaks of
their harmony with creation's first intent.

Angels do not communicate with humans unless there is some way to
advance their purposes in doing so. When such conversation is necessary,
an angel in its natural form communicates by means of overwhelming
images and concepts that convey its will. While it understands all
mortal speech, few angels are inclined to negotiate.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer217 .Text-Frame}
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Angelic Guardian                                                              
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60' flight
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   10                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     10+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 3 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8 weapon straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     11                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   3
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

While among the least of angels, guardians are also among the most
commonly encountered by Godbound who dare the ruins of Heaven or the
fires of Hell. They usually appear as armored warriors wielding weapons
that blaze with caustic light. Most are sworn to purposes that echo the
Words of the Sword, Bow, or Endurance, and may take two actions every
round.

  ---------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Guardian Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Fly 60' to a better position on the battlefield.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Attack the most obnoxious target within 200 feet.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle for invincible defense against weapons until the start of its next turn as an action, then attack.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to automatically hit on all attacks made this round, then attack with its other action.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Use all actions to kill the last foe to harm it.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to inflict 1d10 damage to all foes in sight. This damage is rolled normally, not straight.
  ---------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------
  Angelic Regent                                                                
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     120' teleport
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   20                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 psychic straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   6
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------

More subtle by far than the usual run of angels, a regent is most often
found manipulating mortal believers or engineering atrocities. It can
flawlessly adopt the appearance and seeming of any mortal creature, and
usually displays miracles of Deception and Command. Most have several
mobs of hopelessly beguiled human minions willing to lay down their
lives in its defense. It takes three actions every round.

  ---------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Regent Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Teleport up to 120' away from danger.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Attack what seems to be the strongest foe, using a crushing urge to cower in submission as a weapon.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to lash its minions into a frenzy, granting them all an immediate free round worth of actions.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to force attackers to suffer the same damage they inflict on it until its next turn.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Use all actions to kill the last foe to denounce its lies.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to utter a command; any who disobey it before the next round starts suffer a 1d6 damage die of normally-rolled damage.
  ---------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Angelic Ravager                                                               
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         1                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   15                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     8+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 3 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 bolts straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   5
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

Once charged with preserving and maintaining one of the vital celestial
engines, ravagers now roam the halls of Heaven seeking to destroy its
remaining supports, especially those engines related to their former
Word. Many are affiliated with the Word of Artifice, and craft cunning
and terrible relics. They may act twice every round.

  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Ravager Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Scuttle away from the nearest melee attacker.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Target a ranged foe with their energy bolt attacks.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to negate the next gift or miracle targeted at them, then attack.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to gain an invincible defense against melee attacks until the start of its next turn, then attack.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Use all actions to kill the foe with the finest equipment.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to launch an unerring bolt at each foe within sight, inflicting 1d10 normally-rolled damage, doubled against foes in melee range.
  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------
  Angelic Tyrant                                                                   
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         2                    [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     Any location in sight
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   50                   [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     3+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     Two automatic hits   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 weapon straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     9                    [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   15
  ------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------

One of the greatest lords of the Host, an angelic tyrant commands an
entire circle of Hell and once stood guard over a major concept of
reality. Time, death, wealth, seasons, and other elements all had their
rulers, though many were destroyed during the fall of Heaven. Those that
remain plot ceaselessly against the hated humans. Each has a Godbound's
command over their chosen Word and a handful of related principles.
Tyrants may act three times every round.

  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Tyrant Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Teleport next to the weakest or worst-hurt enemy.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Attack the nearest foe, preferring wounded enemies.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to become invulnerable for a round, simply watching its minions fight the PCs.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to command a foe; if disobeyed, the tyrant's attacks do double damage to them for the fight.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Use all actions to kill the most insulting foe in sight.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to fill the area with their Word's force, inflicting 5d6 damage rolled normally on all enemies present, with a Hardiness save at -4 for half.
  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer218 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor148}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker341}Eldritch

Eldritch foes are those who have gained their powers through their
mastery of theurgy or some other profound sorcerous power. They are no
petty low magic wizards, but wielders of the forces of creation and
mighty paragons of the arcane arts. While they usually lack the
supernatural durability of other great foes, their magic hits with
tremendous force and they are almost invariably well-protected by
minions, wards, and sorcerous preparations.

The arcanists of the Black Academies in Raktia usually qualify as
Eldritch foes, as do lich-lords or successful bargainers with the mad
powers of Uncreated Night. Ordinary mortal sorcerers might also
painstakingly reach the heights of Eldritch power with enough time,
talent, and magical resources.

Eldritch Powers

All Eldritch are treated as possessing the Word of Sorcery and
initiation into at least one level of theurgy. Pick two or three
theurgic invocations of each level they know to represent those arts
they have at their immediate disposal, while other invocations might be
available for more leisurely use. Individual Eldritch might have other
powers based on their nature; a lich-king is unlikely to need to eat or
breathe, while a fractal sorcerer-automaton may have a mind so alien
that it is impervious to thought-reading or mind-affecting powers.

Eldritch all have access to at least one additional Word representing
the focus of their magic or their particular specializations. Their
spontaneous magical exertions are treated as miracles of this Word, and
a few might be so attuned to it that they've developed actual gifts like
those of the Godbound. The basic magical attacks made by an Eldritch
have their damage dice rolled straight, inflicting the full score as
points of damage. Their Words and other spells roll their damage
normally.

Sorcery and other powers invoked through this Word are treated as divine
gifts, too potent to be overcome easily by lesser dispellings or
resistances. A PC hero with the right theurgic dispellings might be able
to shut them down, but abilities that protect against low magic or other
sub-divine incantations are of no use against them.

Eldritch Minions and Resources

Eldritch are wizards, and as such can accomplish marvels of unnatural
workings if given enough time and resources. When designing their lairs
and defenses, you should feel free to insert any effect that matches
their particular specialty Words or fits the general theme of "master of
magic".

Every Eldritch with any time or opportunity will have built, summoned,
or beguiled minions to serve them. These minions can be highly unusual
in appearance after the Eldritch has had time to adjust them to the
wizard's personal tastes or theme. Most of them are somehow useful in
furthering the Eldritch's magical studies as well as being convenient
for defending them. Most can be treated as varieties of mortals, though
lesser Misbegotten are common creations as well.

Not all Eldritch are monstrous inhuman sorcerers or wretches who\'ve
patched for Uncreated power. Some attain this level of mastery through
sheer talent, determination, and scholarly opportunity. High priests of
a religion can often be treated as Eldritch, empowered by the parasite
god or demi-deity they serve, or even infused with their abilities by
the ancient rituals and practices of their faith. Such Eldritch often
have enormous resources available in their co-believers.

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Lesser Eldritch                                                               
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   16                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     9+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 magic straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   6
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

These are superlatively-gifted mortal magi, lesser adepts of the Black
Academies, high priests of lesser faiths, and court wizards of powerful
rulers. They can be treated as adepts of a single Word in addition to
that of Sorcery and have mastered the theurgic incantations of the Gate.
They are able to take two actions per turn.

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Greater Eldritch                                                              
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         4                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60' fly
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   22                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     6+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +11 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 magic straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   8
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

Great magi of the Black Academies, patriarchs of the Unitary Church,
court wizards to emperors, lich-lords of ageless learning, and other
great figures of magic qualify as greater Eldritch. They are adepts of
at least two Words in addition to Sorcery and can have theurgic
invocations of the Gate or the Way. They get two actions per turn.

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Master Eldritch                                                               
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         2                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     120' teleport
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   36                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     3+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +15 x 3 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 magic straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     11                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   15
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

These are the sorcerer-tyrants of whole realms or the arcane hermits who
dwell in the shattered halls of Heaven. Every degree of theurgy is open
to them, in addition to at least three Words aside from that of Sorcery.
They get three actions per turn.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Eldritch Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Reposition to place minions or some barrier between them and their enemies. Some Eldritch move themselves, others move or create the terrain.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Use a Word or invocation to blight, snare, or otherwise debilitate their enemies.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Hit the most sorcerer-like rival on the battlefield with the heaviest attack they have available.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Use an area-effect power to try to blast as many different enemies at once as is possible.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Boost their minions with a Word, granting them an immediate extra action and inflicting 1d12 damage on all foes from the Word's side-effects.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Do nothing but draw power for a full round; next round, all their attacks automatically hit and do maximum damage and all spells have maximum effects.
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer219 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker342}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor149}Made
Gods

Of the countless Made Gods created so long ago, only a handful remain in
existence. The rigors of their war against each other, the perils of
Heaven, and the fury of its angelic defenders have all combined to
winnow their numbers. Those few that have managed to maintain their
existence usually do so in isolated shards of Heaven or fortified
theocratic realms, guarding against the implacable vengefulness of the
angelic Host. A few still shelter in the celestial Paradises they
crafted for their people, they and their dead both perpetually repelling
the assaults of angelic invaders.

Made Gods were usually the sole divine representative of their creators,
divinities built to embody the ideals and philosophies of their makers.
They were the noblest and finest exemplars of all that their people held
holy. Their divine might was meant to spread these ideals throughout the
world and extirpate the evil of lesser, viler ways, ones embraced by
their enemies and their rivals. Any peace between the Made Gods of
different nations was only ever a temporary truce.

Not all Made Gods were created with ideals of conquest and forced
conversion, of course. Such violent deities were simply the only ones
left standing after the first few centuries of struggle. Gods of
peaceful coexistence and harmonious sharing were summarily annihilated
by the more numerous and more violent gods of less pacifistic cultures.
A few such paragons of peace might still survive, hidden deep within the
broken halls of Heaven, but the Made Gods that live today are the ones
built for holy war. The only factors that keep them from resuming their
conquests are the constant threat of angelic attack and the crippling
damage that many have suffered over the long centuries.

The Faces of God

Made Gods are all constructs, though some were built out of living
humans rather than cold theurgic components. Even the most human-seeming
Made God has an air of artificial perfection about them, a symmetry that
speaks more of divine law than human flaws. Most of them are obviously
inhuman, twice the size of a man or more. Golem-like bodies, animal
parts, excessive eyes or limbs or other such symbolic anatomy, and flesh
fashioned of some living elemental force are all common traits of a Made
God's shell.

Divine Rights

Made Gods embody the ideals of their creators, usually expressed through
one or more Words. They have effectively unlimited Effort, and may use
gifts and miracles of those Words freely. Made Gods cannot offensively
dispel gifts, however; they can only dispel defensively.

The personal attacks of a Made God roll their damage dice straight.
Gifts and miracles they invoke roll damage dice normally. If they use a
gift that modifies their base attack, such as one that doubles the
damage done, then the damage done is rolled normally rather than
straight.

Made Gods embody the remorseless victory of their ideals. All creatures
of 1 or 2 hit dice within sight of a Made God are utterly subject to its
will for so long as they remain within the god's presence. The presence
of another Made God cancels out this effect, as does the presence of a
defiant Godbound.

A slain Made God will explode as their divine energies escape through
their shattered shell. The explosion may not be physical in nature, and
may instead warp natural laws, inflict a hideous curse, or create some
permanent magical monument. Physical detonations inflict 10d8 damage on
everything within ten miles of the location.

  ------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------
  Made God                                                                         
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         0                    [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     120' by favored mode
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   50                   [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     Always successful
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     Two automatic hits   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   2d10 blast straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     11                   [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   Special
  ------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------

Made Gods are almost always found in the company of their theotechnical
cults, which they require for their maintenance and spiritual upkeep.
Gods without such a cult are prone to decay and malfunction, but even a
decayed Made God gets three actions per turn. Defeating a Made God is
almost impossible without careful preparation.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Made God Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Reposition to take a commanding location on the battlefield, suitable for overawing their enemies or smiting a distant foe.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Spend a round exulting in its own power, using its Words in a dramatic but not necessarily useful way.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Target a single foe and hammer it with everything the god's got. Insulting foes are picked over dangerous ones.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Scatter or disorient the enemy with a miracle, moving them away from the god or creating barriers between.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Spread the divine wrath around, using each action against a different foe and using a different kind of attack or miracle each time.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Demand the foes worship it, using debilitating miracles that weaken or subvert the enemy without risking its unconverted death.
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer220 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor150}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker343}Misbegotten

The natural order of the world has been broken for a thousand years. For
ten centuries, the realms have given birth to creatures and entities
never intended by nature, their forms fashioned by sorcery, dark
artifice, or the simple misfortune of some cursed birthplace. These are
the Misbegotten, entities plagued by dangerous anomalies of mind and
form.

Not all altered creatures are considered Misbegotten. Amid the steady
decay of the celestial engines, many men and women are touched in small
ways by the loosening of physical laws. Small peculiarities of color,
texture, or body parts are viewed with some dismay in most circles, but
so long as their bearers seem otherwise no different than their peers,
they are usually accepted by their community. A few societies hold a
harder line, however, and cast out any who are born with the marks of
anomaly on them. Some even exile those unfortunates who change later in
life, either due to a slow-manifesting anomaly or because of exposure to
some curdled source of old magic.

True Misbegotten are identified chiefly by their danger. Animals cursed
with the condition are usually savage and bloodthirsty, their natural
instincts confused and infuriated by their altered bodies. Humans who
experience excessive physical alteration usually have mental changes to
match, ones that instill uncontrollable urges or bestial instincts.
These Misbegotten are monsters, pure and simple, and even the most
desperately regretful among them are lashed on by compulsions they
simply cannot contain for long.

Two Kinds of Afflictions

Misbegotten come in two major varieties in the realms. The first are
those created intentionally by some ancient magic or more modern
experimenter. The sort of beings who create chimeras out of humans and
beasts are rarely of the most humane temper, and their creations are
usually instilled with a native fury and savage urge to violence. With
their creators dead, some of these creatures breed true, creating
long-standing populations of dangerous monsters. Occasionally these
beasts require the particular magical environment they were first
spawned in, restraining their spread, but others can expand to be found
throughout a realm.

The second kind of Misbegotten are the products of simple misfortune.
They are those cursed by half-spoiled magic left over from ancient days,
mutated by the rotting remnants of some forgotten spell. Many such
unfortunates die from the changes, but some live, and it's not uncommon
for such drastic magical transformations to give them a kind of
immortality. Such accidental monsters could live for centuries as a
threat, perhaps with others of their kind of the magic is particularly
strong and persistent. A few of these beasts breed true and are
sufficiently calm to be trained by steely-willed owners. Many of the
wild Howler tribes of the realm of Arcem have herds of Misbegotten
beasts bred for meat, mounts, and vicious guardians.

Misbegotten of both kinds tend to be loosely tethered to natural law.
Many of the longest-surviving varieties require much less food than
creatures of their size might usually need, or have magical abilities to
capture prey. Intelligent Misbegotten are usually smart enough to stay
away from large groups of humans, though their urges or their simple
hunger might compel them to hunt at the edges of human settlements.

Misbegotten organization depends both on their intelligence and their
instincts. Weak Misbegotten usually form packs of similar creatures,
while strong ones are often lone alpha predators in their area.

Misbegotten Powers

Aside from those minor Misbegotten that are little more than
unhappily-deformed animals, every Misbegotten has at least one magical
power or trait. You should thumb through the Words and pick a particular
gift or two that suits a Misbegotten's nature or type of origin and
assign it to the beast accordingly. Some powers might require the
creature to Commit Effort to trigger them, while other natural abilities
might be constantly available to the beast.

When assigning powers, it's generally best to leave it at just one or
two significant abilities unless the creature is intended to be a major
opponent for the heroes. Mobs of lesser Misbegotten can be cumbersome to
run if they all have several different abilities they could trigger, so
one characteristic offensive power and one constant defensive benefit is
usually as many as can be conveniently managed in combat.

Using Misbegotten as Foes

During play, you'll usually need one of two types of Misbegotten: minor
enemies as mob fodder, and dangerous semi-divine beasts that should
threaten an entire pantheon. You'll want to build these two types of
enemies differently.

For minor enemies, you'll want creatures with few hit dice, limited
powers, and large numbers of friends. The Mob rules in this section are
often applicable to foes of this type, and can make even an individually
trivial enemy into a significant threat in sufficient numbers.

  ------------------------------ ----------- ---------------------------- ------------------
  Minor Misbegotten                                                       
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         7 to 9      [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   1 to 5      [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     15+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +Hit Dice   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6 or by weapon
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     8           [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ------------------------------ ----------- ---------------------------- ------------------

These Misbegotten are vile and twisted creatures, whether warped beasts
or altered humans. Specific types of them will usually have the same
armor class and hit dice, though their alphas and chieftains might be
larger and more dangerous. Intelligent Misbegotten will usually be using
weapons of some sort. Their hit bonus is equal to their maximum hit
dice.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Minor Misbegotten Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Run away from a foe that hurt it or its comrades during the last round, preferring instead to attack a different enemy. If no other enemy, cower back for a round.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Circle the target, curse, and otherwise make a threat display. Intelligent creatures may try to coerce surrender.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Attack a nearby target, preferring one that's also being engaged by a comrade.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Attack the nearest wounded enemy, or one that's in a compromising position.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Use their offensive power on a suitable target. If no power is available, strike the nearest enemy.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Tear flesh from a downed foe, killing them, or otherwise express its natural urges in a frenzy of mindless indulgence or violence.
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------
  Titanic Beast                                                                 
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         2                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60' by favored mode
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   15                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     8+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 3 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 physical straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   5
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------

These horrific creatures can overwhelm any ordinary mortal foe and can
even threaten a pantheon of novice Godbound. Most have only a feral sort
of intelligence, but their natural attacks roll damage straight, and
they can act three times every round. Most have several gifts.

  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Titanic Beast Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Savagely charge the biggest enemy in sight, automatically hitting with its first attack. If impossible, just attack.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Use its natural environment against its foes, either by means of a gift or by simple smashing or scattering.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Charge a ranged opponent that hurt it last round, automatically hitting with the first attack. If no such foe exists, then attack the nearest enemy,
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Activate one of its natural gifts against a nearby enemy, preferring the largest foe.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Make a furious threat display against the most aggravating enemy as an action. Its next attack sequence against that enemy hits automatically all three times.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Hunch down and use defensive gifts. No attacks this round, but if anyone attacks it, it automatically counterattacks after the blow lands.
  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------
  Twisted Ogre                                                                    
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3                   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   20                  [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     One automatic hit   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 physical straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     9                   [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   7
  ------------------------------ ------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------------

These kinds of Misbegotten are intelligent, and usually fueled by
cravings both hideous and alien. While they're personally capable of
fighting several Godbound at once with three actions per round, they
usually rely on mobs of lesser servants to soften up opponents first.

  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Twisted Ogre Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Reposition on the battlefield to get away from the most dangerous opponents.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Command its minions to screen it from danger, granting all allies an immediate free round of action.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Use one of its gifts on some object or terrain feature it prepared beforehand, triggering a trap or using a natural feature as a hazard to its foes.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Use an offensive gift directly on an enemy, following it up with the rest of its actions for the round as attacks.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Sacrifice an individual minion or 1d6 hit dice worth of an allied Mob to distract or hinder a foe, allowing the ogre's next attack on them to do maximum damage.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Use every action this turn in invoking gifts against its enemies. If not enough Effort, then attack the weakest or most badly-wounded enemy within easy reach.
  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer221 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor151}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker344}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor152}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor153}Mobs

A Mob is a pack of foes who might be individually contemptible yet are
dangerous in swarms. Rather than pitting dozens of individual soldiers,
ancient constructs, monstrous spawn, or other petty enemies against the
PCs, the GM can simply represent the pack as a Mob. A Mob possesses most
of the characteristics of the main creature type that participates in
it, but it has a few adjustments to make it a more worthy foe and one
easier for the GM to run in combat. It's always up to the GM as to
whether a particular group of foes should be treated as a Mob or as
individuals.

Creating a Mob

Mobs are treated as single opponents, usually subject to enemy attacks
and actions as if they were a single target. To turn a swarm of enemies
into a Mob, make the following adjustments.

Decide whether or not the Mob is Small, Large, or Vast. A Small Mob has
enough foes to fill a large room. A Large Mob can block a street, and a
Vast Mob is the size of a military unit on a battlefield. Don't worry
about counting exact numbers of enemies; if the foes are minor enough to
make up a Mob, a few more or less don't matter.

A Small Mob has hit dice equal to ten plus twice the creature's base hit
dice. Thus, a Small Mob of 1 HD soldiers would have 12 hit dice. A Large
Mob has twice this number, and a Vast Mob has three times this number. A
military regiment of 4 HD spirit-possessed vessels would therefore be a
Vast Mob that has 54 hit dice.

A Mob has an attack bonus equal to the creature's usual attack bonus.
Sword-swinging soldiers of an ordinary cut would thus make a Mob that
had a +1 attack bonus, and those 4 hit die vessels would probably have a
+4 attack bonus.

A Small Mob has a number of attacks equal to its usual attack sequence.
A Large Mob has twice this sum, and a Vast Mob has three times as many
attacks. A Small Mob of human soldiers would thus have a single attack,
while a swarm of savage Misbegotten, which might usually have two claw
attacks, would have six of them when marshaled into a Vast legion.

A Mob has an armor class equal to that of its base creature type. Its
morale, saving throws and other statistics are also equal to that of the
base creature type. Its movement is the same as well, though this
usually isn't terribly important unless the Mob is chasing something.

Mobs also have any special abilities possessed by their base creature
type. If the Mob is mostly made of one type of creature, but has a
significant number of other beings involved, the Mob might have access
to the special powers of these allies. Otherwise, don't worry about
altering a mixed Mob's statistics. Just use the predominant creature
type and its usual available Effort.

Running a Mob

Mobs act and fight just as any other creatures do, with a few major
exceptions to reflect the way that vast swarms of foes can threaten even
mighty heroes.

Mobs don't usually need to move; they simply occupy a space. If a small
mob is in the room, one or more of its members are assumed to be
anywhere they need to be in the room. A large mob can dominate a street
or large building, while a vast mob can be wherever they need to be on a
battlefield. As a consequence, most PCs in the area will be in reach of
a mob unless the heroes do something to put themselves out of range.

Mobs can make one full round of attacks against any foes within reach
each round. Thus, a single Mob pitted against four Godbound heroes can
attack each of the four heroes every round. If a Vast Mob has six
attacks per round, as a Vast Mob of Misbegotten might have, then every
foe within its reach will be attacked six times every round.

Mobs with special powers, such as the innate magical gifts of sorcerous
spawn or Mobs with abilities granted by their training, can use one of
these powers each round against any single target. Thus, a Mob of
witch-led draugr slaves might have the armored corpses wield a crushing
blow ability against one PC, while the witches hurl a curse of ice at
another. The same power can be used against multiple PCs, but only one
power can be targeted at any single hero each round. The GM might make
an exception for auras, miasmas, or other ambient effects that just
happen without effort by the Mob. Using an ability does not cost a Mob
its attacks for the round.

Mobs under some semblance of control can also do one non-combat action a
round, such as breaking down a door, building a barricade, or otherwise
doing the sort of things that a swarm of people could accomplish in a
round. Mobs without firm leadership are unlikely to be able to pull off
such feats of coordination, and will instead just blindly blunder in the
direction of their shared interest.

Mobs usually have to check morale as soon as they're reduced to half hit
dice. Mobs of undisciplined peasants or wild animals must also check
morale as soon as they take any damage at all.

Area-effect powers roll their damage straight against Mobs or roll a 1d6
straight damage die per point of damage done if the power simply
inflicts a flat amount. Thus, a Godbound who calls down a [Corona of
Fury]{.CharOverride-3} on a swarm of angry peasants just does their
damage roll in points of damage, without referencing the usual chart.
Powers that disable or render harmless all victims within a large area
inflict the equivalent of 3 hit dice of damage per level of the Godbound
or per hit die of the creature inflicting them, up to 30 at most. This
sort of effect might happen if a Godbound uses a gift to terrify or
beguile listeners, or traps them in a snare of sudden vines. The Mob
might get a saving throw against some effects, however, if allowed one.

Mob Abilities

Mobs sometimes have special abilities based on their sheer numbers,
foaming zealotry, or synergy created by their coordination. The
abilities described below are examples.

[Overwhelm]{.CharOverride-3}: The vast numbers of the mob can threaten a
foe otherwise far beyond the mob's power to harm. Once per turn, the mob
can use this ability as a free On Turn action against a single foe they
are engaging, rolling an automatic damage die ranging from 1d4 to 1d20
depending on the ferocity of the swarm. Foes can make a saving throw to
negate this damage, with the type depending on the nature of the mob.
Packs that fight with brute force require a Hardiness save, those that
use projectile attacks or swarms of small foes require an Evasion save,
and those that use eldritch powers compel a Spirit save.

[Blood Like Water]{.CharOverride-3}: In place of an attack, the mob
swarms over its foe, utterly heedless of casualties. The mob
automatically hits all targets in contact with it. This violence comes
at a price; any victims of [Blood Like Water]{.CharOverride-3} treat any
of their attack rolls made against the Mob in their next turn as
automatic hits. This ability is usually only possessed by mindless foes
or fanatically determined enemies. This power substitutes for a single
attack each time it's used.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer222 .Text-Frame}
Example Mobs

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- --------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor154}Furious Peasants                                                    
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                9                   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                          12 / 24 / 36        [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     15+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                            +0 / +0 x2 /+0 x3   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6 average weapon
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                            7                   [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- --------------------

This wild Mob might be one incited by the PCs or one hurled against them
by a demagogue or beguiling foe. It can also be used to represent any
random mass of ordinary citizens without particular martial talent. The
Mob is made up of 1 hit die creatures, and is susceptible to powers and
Fray dice that affect such foes.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- --------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor155}Trained Soldiers                                                    
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                6                   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                          12 / 24 / 36        [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     15+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                            +2 / +2 x2 /+2 x3   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8 average weapon
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                            9                   [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- --------------------

These soldiers are well-trained, and can represent regular field troops
or veteran city guardsmen. In addition to the usual abilities of a mob,
they also have the [Overwhelm]{.CharOverride-3} ability which they may
use against a single engaged target once per round. Such swarmed foes
suffer a 1d6 damage die automatically unless they make a successful
Hardiness save. The mob is made up of 1 hit die creatures, and is
susceptible to powers and Fray dice that affect such foes.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor156}Elite Warriors                                                    
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                              4                   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                        16 / 32 / 48        [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     14+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                          +4 / +4 x2 /+4 x3   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8+2 average
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                          11                  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------

Most military forces don't have enough elite troops to field more than a
few Small Mobs of them, though those groups blessed by divine favor or
formed by an exceptionally martial society might have more. This mob's
[Overwhelm]{.CharOverride-3} ability inflicts 1d10 damage on a single
enemy within engagement range when targeted at a foe, though a
successful Hardiness save allows the victim to resist. The mob is made
up of 3 hit die creatures, and is susceptible to powers and Fray dice
that affect such foes.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- ----------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor157}Brazen Legion                                                    
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                             4                   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                       20 / 40 / 60        [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     13+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                         +7 / +7 x2 /+6 x3   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10+2 average
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                         10                  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- ----------------

Mass-produced warbots or battle-golems might use these stats, each one a
fearsome warrior capable of slaughtering an ordinary soldier with ease.
Golems without self-awareness will have a Morale of 12 and the [Blood
Like Water]{.CharOverride-3} ability, while those with some sense of
self-preservation will [Overwhelm]{.CharOverride-3} for 1d20 on a failed
Evasion save.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- --------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor158}Undead Horde                                                    
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                            7                   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' shamble
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                      12 / 24 / 36        [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     16+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                        +1 / +1 x2 /+1 x3   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8 average weapon
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                        12                  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------- --------------------

A shambling mass of lesser undead takes the field in this horde. While
utterly fearless and hard to put down, they lack the intelligence and
flexibility of living troops, and fail to show much self-preservation.
They do, however, have a mindless lust for violence, and gain the [Blood
Like Water]{.CharOverride-3} ability which they may use against its foes
in lieu of an attack. Small Mobs can use this power once per round,
Large Mobs can use it twice, and Vast Mobs can use it three times per
round. The mob is made up of 2 hit die creatures, and is susceptible to
powers and Fray dice that affect such foes.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- -----------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor159}Verminous Swarm                                               
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                               9              [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' crawl
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                         12 / 24 / 36   [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     15+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                           Special        [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6 gnaw
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}                                                           10             [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- -----------

Whether giant rats, a carpet of gnawing insects, or a writhing mass of
tentacular creatures, this mob relies on sheer numbers and voracity to
bring down its foes. It has the [Blood Like Water]{.CharOverride-3}
ability, which Small Mobs may use once per round, Large twice, and Vast
three times. The mob is made up of 1 hit die creatures, and is
susceptible to powers and Fray dice that affect such foes. The swarm
only attacks with [Blood Like Water]{.CharOverride-3}, and not with
conventional hit rolls.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer223 .Sidebar}
When To Roll
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker345}Damage
Straight

Mobs take damage straight when it\'s inflicted by an area-effect attack.
Thus, [Corona of Fury]{.CharOverride-3} rolls its damage straight,
because it\'s clearly labeled as an area-effect power. But what about
the marginal cases, when it\'s not clear whether or not a gift should be
rolled straight against a ravening Mob? Just check the guidelines below
to find the answer.

-   Is the power listed as affecting all creatures within a particular
    area, and a meaningful chunk of the Mob is in that area? Roll it
    straight.
-   Does the power harm everyone who attacks or closes on the user, such
    as [Nimbus of Flames]{.CharOverride-3}? Roll it straight, since a
    large number of faceless Mob NPCs are getting hit by it.
-   Does the power have a listed damage that\'s done to Mobs, like the
    1d20 die from [Mantle of Quietus]{.CharOverride-3}? Use that. The
    Mantle, for example, just rolls a 1d20 die normally.

Just follow those three guidelines, and you\'ll know whether or not to
roll an ability\'s damage straight against a Mob.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer224 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker346}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor160}Mortal
Foes

Ordinary men and women rarely pose much threat to a Godbound unless they
appear in vast swarms. Common soldiers, ordinary thugs, and even
dangerous mundane beasts all are scythed down quickly by all but the
most pacifistic demigods. Even so, it can be useful for a GM to have
some idea of what normal men and women look like in comparison to the
mightier denizens of the realm.

The statistics given here cover some of the more common varieties of
human and animal foes. During play, it's usually not worth it to track
mere individuals of this level, but these statistics can be useful if
Mobs of a particular enemy are needed.

Not all wholly mortal foes are trivial, however. Some warriors or gifted
sorcerers manage to hone their abilities to a level that can give a
novice Godbound pause. While they lack the flexibility of the Words,
they might have mastered certain gifts thanks to their innate talents or
their mastery of the secret martial practices found across the realm.
For these exceptional foes, the GM can assign a more generous number of
hit dice, a hit bonus to match, add a gift or two relevant to their
focus, and grant them two actions per round.

Mortal Hit Dice

Normal men and women have one hit die. Hardened veterans and unusually
skilled soldiers will have two hit dice. Elite operatives and the finest
normal combatants in a city will have three hit dice. Totals above that
indicate some degree of magic, long practice, or superlative talent.
Even the most tremendously talented and capable normal human will not
exceed ten hit dice without substantial magical augmentation.

For mortal creatures, hit dice are a measure of how hard they are to
defeat in a conflict, not just how physically impressive they may be. A
cow has one hit die, because even though it might weigh a quarter of a
ton, it's not a beast much inclined to violent struggle. A perfumed
fencing-master might have an extremely high hit bonus, but if he's
totally disconnected from the bloody business of actual murder, he might
not have more than one or two hit dice.

Powerful politicians and social figures do not necessarily have a big
stack of hit dice. Most of them are perfectly ordinary men and women in
matters not related to their expertise, and so they can be expected to
have one or two hit dice. Grizzled veterans of savage political
maneuvering or scarred warrior-kings raised to the throne on the point
of their swords, however, might have as many as seven or eight hit dice.

Mortals and Gifts

For simplicity's sake, rather than spend time sculpting out unique
abilities and tricks for individual mortals of importance, it's easier
to just grab a gift from an appropriate Word and use it to represent the
mortal's particular talents. These arts might come from their native
ingenuity, their magical powers, their martial arts study, or some other
suitable source.

These abilities are not true gifts, however, and cannot be used to
overcome the powers of a Godbound. They usually require Effort to
trigger, and unless you decide otherwise, you can assume that a mortal
has only one point of Effort available at any one time.

Most mortals are mown down in combat quickly enough that it's not worth
the time to elaborate their combat statistics too much. They usually
have enough time to trigger one gift, and then that's it. Choosing
something from Sword or Bow is thus recommended.

A Selection of Human Foes

These statistics cover some of the sorts of people that Godbound are
most likely to encounter. Individuals will vary, of course, depending on
their particular aptitudes.

  ------------------------------ ----------------------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------------
  Common Humans                                                                             
                                 [Civilian]{.CharOverride-7}   [Warrior]{.CharOverride-7}   [Veteran]{.CharOverride-7}
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         9                             7 to 5                       5 to 3
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   1                             1                            2
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +0                            +1                           +4
  [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}     1d2 or weapon                 1d2 or weapon                1d4 or weapon
  [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}       30' run                       30' run                      30' run
  [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}       15+                           15+                          14+
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     7                             8                            10
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     1                             1                            1
  ------------------------------ ----------------------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------------

Ordinary humans are of little consequence in combat, though more
experienced fighters can occasionally hinder a Godbound if they're
sufficiently armed and armored. Most of the time, humans of this sort
will be found in Mobs if they mean to slow down a hero.

  ------------------------------ ------------------------------- ------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  Exceptional Humans                                                                             
                                 [Minor Hero]{.CharOverride-7}   [Major Hero]{.CharOverride-7}   [Skilled Mage]{.CharOverride-7}
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         4                               3                               7
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   4                               8                               6
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +6                              +10 x 2 attacks                 +5
  [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}     1d10+2                          1d8+5                           1d6 blast
  [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}       30' run                         40' run                         30' run
  [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}       13+                             11+                             12+
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     11                              11                              9
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     3                               4                               6
  ------------------------------ ------------------------------- ------------------------------- ---------------------------------

Humans of this caliber are usually found as individual opponents. A
minor hero is individually a speed bump to a combat-focused Godbound,
but several of them can be a problem. Major heroes are among the
mightiest warriors of a nation, and can possibly overcome a novice
Godbound if their target isn't well-made for war.

Minor Heroes should have one combat-relevant gift to reflect their
particular talents, and are able to Commit Effort to make saving throws
in the same way as Godbound. Choices from the Sword, Bow, or Endurance
Words are most likely applicable to their skills, though heroes with
supernatural blood might have ties to a more exotic art.

Major Heroes should pick three gifts that match their skills, usually
one offensive gift, one defensive one, and one that has something to do
with movement or manipulation of the environment. They are allowed two
actions per round.

A skilled mage represents a duke's sorcerous vizier or one of the most
powerful wizards of a city. Aside from being an archmage of some low
magic tradition, they should pick three appropriate gifts as their
immediately-available spells. They also get two actions per round.

Bestial Perils

Normal animals aren't usually a problem for Godbound. Primal opposition
most often appears as Misbegotten beasts or denizens of strange realms.
Even so, some shapeshifting Godbound might need the statistics of more
mundane beasts, or the heroes might find themselves assailed by a Mob of
natural fauna. Normal domestic animals almost always have only 1 hit die
and no meaningful combat statistics.

  ------------------------------ --------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------
  Pack Animals                                                                                      
                                 [Petty Vermin]{.CharOverride-7}   [Pack Hunter]{.CharOverride-7}   [Big Hunter]{.CharOverride-7}
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         8                                 7                                8
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   1                                 1                                3
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +1                                +2                               +5
  [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}     1d4 bite                          1d6 bite                         1d8 bite
  [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}       20' skitter                       40' lope                         40' lope
  [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}       15+                               15+                              13+
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     7                                 8                                9
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     1                                 1                                1
  ------------------------------ --------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------

Petty vermin are almost always found as Mobs when they're meant to be a
meaningful threat to a Godbound. They're waves of rats, swarms of
insects, or other hordes of small, biting foes.

Pack hunters include wolves and other larger beasts that attack in
groups. Mobs are also usually applicable for them, and in a Mob they
should have a gift reflecting their talents when working together as a
coordinated group. Riding horses also use these statistics, but will
only fight in self-defense.

Big hunters are creatures like lions or other pack hunters of
exceptional ferocity and size. They don't necessarily need to be in a
Mob to cause problems for novice heroes, as even a half-dozen of them
can complicate life in a hurry. They should also be given one gift to
represent the benefits of their pack cooperation. Warhorses can also use
these statistics, and will fight alongside their rider.

  ------------------------------ -------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  Lone Beasts                                                                                     
                                 [Lone Hunter]{.CharOverride-7}   [Big Grazer]{.CharOverride-7}   [Predator King]{.CharOverride-7}
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         7                                7                               6
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   4                                7                               12
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +7 x 2 attacks                   +9                              +10 x 3 attacks
  [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}     1d8+2 bite                       1d10+2 kick                     1d10+2
  [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}       40' run                          30' run                         40' run
  [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}       13+                              12+                             9+
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     8                                7                               9
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     2                                1                               3
  ------------------------------ -------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------------------------

Lone hunters are tigers, sharks, or other fearsome predators that
usually hunt alone. All of them should have one gift appropriate to
their nature. Big grazers can be used for elephant bulls, cape oxen, and
other ostensible herbivores that have a habit of kicking problems into
pulp. They may or may not have a gift useful in combat. Predator kings
are the heroes of the animal world, grizzled beasts of terrible wrath.
They may act twice a round and have two pertinent gifts.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer225 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker347}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor161}Parasite
Gods

The damage inflicted on the engines of Heaven by the Last War was deep
and wide-ranging. Some damage produced obvious catastrophes, sundering
nations and throwing natural laws into chaos. Other troubles were more
subtle in their consequences. The parasite gods are one such symptom,
misfortunate monsters created by a broken world.

Certain regions of the world have suffered subtle damage to the engines
that maintain their natural laws. The power of the engines is not being
directed correctly, and crackles off into the created world in invisible
tongues of celestial force. Sometimes these stray sparks brush against a
human or other creature within the realm, and a connection is forged.
These unfortunates are known as "parasite gods", for they draw into
themselves the energies that were meant for the maintenance of natural
law.

The effects of these forces vary wildly. Physical transformations are
usual, and instances of madness or mental devolution are not uncommon.
Above all, however, is the terrible thirst that this connection induces
in the host, an unquenchable desire for more power. The parasite god was
never meant to receive such celestial energies, so no amount of power
can ever truly fill the void within them. Most of them instinctively try
to recreate patterns of worship and service in the humans around them in
order to amplify the amount of divine energy they receive.

Parasite gods are not intrinsically evil, but even the noblest of them
suffer under a constant, gnawing thirst for celestial energy. Some have
sufficient willpower to resist the temptation to seek more, but most of
them eventually give in to the addiction within a few years of its first
manifestations. These addicts become obsessed with creating elaborate
edifices of worship and brutal, follower-consuming rituals of devotion.
Their minions are sent to gather new worshipers and force others to
become devoted servants of their insatiable god.

As the parasite god grows in power, the natural laws of the land they
command become weaker and more erratic, particularly in ways that
reflect the god's nature or focus. A powerful parasite god doesn't just
siphon off the free energy of the celestial engines, their worshipers
act to drain additional power that the engines need to maintain the
world. Cysts of dangerous magic and the open sores of Night Roads are
common in lands afflicted by a powerful parasite god.

One small saving grace is that parasite gods are usually geographically
limited to a particular area. They are tethered to the celestial flaws
that feed them their power, and leaving this area causes them to wither
and die within days. Some such areas can be small as a single building
complex, while others extend over entire nations. A sufficiently
powerful or numerous group of worshipers in another area, however, can
create similar celestial damage with their rituals and sorcery,
expanding the parasite god's reach. Only the most powerful or cunning
gods know the necessary techniques for producing this contagion. Many
more have their minions out searching for it.

There is no known cure for divine parasitism. It is possible to cut a
parasite god off from its powers by repairing the celestial damage that
created the original link, but reaching the correct shard of fallen
Heaven and repairing the engines is a feat to tax a Godbound's power.
Even if successful the parasite god will still suffer their undying
thirst, though they can no longer use their former powers. It may be
that some great feat of divine power might be able to purge the effects
of divine parasitism from a victim, but discovering such a means would
be a great achievement even for a pantheon of Godbound.

Parasite Gods in Play

Parasite gods are meant to be worthy opponents for an entire pantheon of
Godbound. PCs can discover a parasite god almost anywhere, often trapped
within some ancient ruin or lurking in some long-forgotten temple to its
glory, surrounded by the bones of its slaughtered faithful. Their
geographic restrictions mean that even such powerful creatures can't
readily dominate a realm, as they're forced to remain within their own
territory if they're to survive.

Parasite gods are addicts. Their goal is to receive a larger flow of
celestial power, and they do that by setting up cults, temples, and all
the paraphernalia of worship. Even animalistic or half-mad parasite gods
know to do this, as the necessary patterns of behavior and worship are
imprinted on them at an instinctual level. Parasite gods will always
have swarms of worshipers nearby if at all possible.

Parasite gods initially offer aid and help to prospective worshipers,
using their celestial powers to help the faithful. Some of them might
even intend to be benevolent deities. The constant pressure of the
thirst soon erodes the kindliness of all but the most determined god,
however, and these cults usually degenerate into brutal tyranny.
Miracles and wonders are provided to the faithful, but only with the
intent of expanding the god's power and influence.

Parasite gods might be locational threats, terrifying monsters that
dwell in forgotten places and lust for new slaves. They can also be
schemers of a kind, plotting to build a foreign cult powerful enough to
break the engines of Heaven and expand their territory. A few might even
be sympathetic, providing a potential ally to Godbound who can deal with
their unslakeable thirst.

Parasite God Abilities

Parasite gods leech their powers from the broken elements of natural
law. Most of these gods draw on only one aspect of nature, but a few are
born from multiple disasters and can draw on several Words. When
building a parasite god, you should pick one Word to represent its main
focus. Most of its miracles and abilities should clearly relate to that
Word.

Every parasite god is unique, even down to their physical appearance.
Two gods might draw from the same aspect of reality, but they will each
tend to express that power in their own way. You should pick three or
four lesser gifts from the Word to represent abilities likely to be
relevant in combat, including at least one weapon or offensive power,
one defensive measure, and one trick related to their Word that could be
useful in a fight. The parasite god has the same miracle-working
abilities as a Godbound in their Word, so they could use any of its
gifts in a pinch, but these three powers will give you an immediate clue
as to what to do with them in a fight.

Their tactics table includes an entry for [divine
ecstasy]{.CharOverride-3}. The flow of celestial power is intoxicating
to these creatures, and sometimes they get lost in it when embroiled in
the excitement of combat. When a parasite god falls into ecstasy for a
round, they spend it exerting their thematic powers on their
surroundings in the most flashy and dramatic way possible, careless over
whether it actually helps them in the fight.

Parasite gods are much weaker outside their territory. They cannot
regain Committed Effort while outside their flaw\'s borders, and will
die within 1d4 days if they do not return. Traveling more than a day\'s
normal journey from their territory is impossible for them.

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------
  Weak God                                                                      
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   15                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     10+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8 straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     9                 [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   5
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------

This god is freshly-formed, or draws its power from a small disorder in
Heaven. While it's likely strong enough to overcome a novice Godbound, a
full pantheon should be sufficient to kill it or drive it into hiding.
If it has an active cult, it's probably small and with only a few Small
Mobs of peasants or zealots to obey it. Even a weak parasite god is
tremendously dangerous, however, especially to those without magical
aid. Weak gods can take two actions during a combat round.

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------------
  Established God                                                               
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         2                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60' mode of choice
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   25                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     6+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   10
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------------

This god has had time to build its power, and is now a serious threat to
a pantheon. Combined with a vigorous hierarchy of servants, it's
probably more than the PCs can handle unless they're also veteran
divinities. This god should have at least one high priest or chief
lieutenant, most likely with Eldritch statistics, plus a Large Mob or
two of minions. Defeating them will likely take careful planning if
they\'re to be separated from their acolytes and rendered vulnerable.
Established gods can take three actions during a combat round.

  ------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Dread God                                                                        
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         1                    [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     120' mode of choice
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   40                   [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     3+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     Two automatic hits   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     11                   [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   15
  ------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

This parasite god has metastasized into a monster. Enormously strong, it
probably has an entire nation or realm devoted to its service, with
literal armies of minions and a circle of fearsome lieutenants to carry
out its insatiable will. PCs can't hope to defeat such a monster without
significant preparation and careful planning. Dread gods can take three
actions during a combat round.

  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Parasite God Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Move to engage the target who most obviously defies the parasite god's divine authority.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Unleash physical attacks on their current foe.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Wield a divine gift against their present target.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Indulge in divine ecstasy for a round, blindly invoking their powers with no concern for tactical wisdom.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle that\'s useful to them in this combat.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Invoke a miracle to bolster minions or allies, letting them fight instead. If no allies, hinder the foes with it.
  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An Example Parasite God

The deity given below is intended to be a fair match for a party of four
first level Godbound. At very low levels, a party is susceptible to
being overwhelmed by straight damage attacks, so as the GM, you might
want to be careful about allowing the god extra minions or giving it the
chance to ambush the heroes and deny them their automatic initiative. If
this god can catch the pantheon by surprise or when they\'re already
weakened, it might well destroy them all.

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------
  The Buried Mother                                                             
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         4                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' burrow
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   15                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     10+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8 straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   5
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------

In a former age, before the end of the Last War, when the Polyarchy of
Kham still ruled much of Arcem, the Buried Mother was an ordinary woman.
As a simple worker for her ideotribe, she composed praise-songs for
their champions and stitched ritual vestments for these heroes in their
fight against the Ren invaders to the south. It was pure misfortune that
she was caught by the aftershocks of a celestial engine damaged in a
Night Road skirmish between the two sides.

The Buried Mother was touched by celestial power and infused with the
weaving of stone and soil. She bonded the Word of Earth and became
insatiable for more elaborate stitchings and bindings to channel yet
more of this power from the broken engine. Her fellows in the
weaving-house were terrified into offering her their obeisance, and her
power became a danger to her ideotribe. Before their heroes could
destroy her, a Ren incursion slaughtered the entire community.

For the past thousand years, the Buried Mother has lurked in these lost
ruins, shaping cultists of stone and draping them in asbestos-cloth
vestments. She is agonizingly hungry for worship, and the few
adventurers who stumble across the ruins are swiftly trapped and forced
to pray and abase themselves until they perish from her frantic demands.
She cannot leave the ruins for long, but sometimes she prowls the
surrounding wilderness to search for victims to carry off.

The Buried Mother appears to be gigantic middle-aged, dark-skinned woman
dressed in fabulously intricate weaving of jeweled cloth. She is only
ever seen from the waist up, as she remains half-buried in the earth at
all times; even so, her upper half is at least seven feet tall. Aside
from her crushing blows, divine miracles, and two actions per round, she
can call on several specific powers.

[Rocky Snare:]{.CharOverride-3} As an action, she can conjure up a wall
of stone up to fifty feet long, ten feet high, and one foot thick. She
often uses this snare to seal intruders in with her or escape with a new
\"worshiper\".

[Stony Grasp: ]{.CharOverride-3}In lieu of an attack action, she can
grab a foe within ten feet. On a hit, the target is gripped and cannot
escape or use physical attacks without succeeding in a Strength
attribute check at a penalty of -4, an act which requires their full
turn\'s action.

[Swim the Earth:]{.CharOverride-3} She can pass through stone and soil
as if it were water, diving into the earth if necessary. She can\'t take
prisoners with her, however, and she is too desperate for worship to
release them from her grip, even if her existence is at stake.

[Topple the Stones:]{.CharOverride-3} She can hurl loose stones and
topple support pillars on enemies as her action for a turn. This attack
affects all enemies in a ten-foot wide line out to sixty feet,
inflicting 1d12 normal damage from the falling rubble.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer226 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker348}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor162}Relicts

Relicts are the remnants of the dead past. The denizens of crumbled
empires, the inhabitants of toppled realms, the strange life of Heaven's
dying shards... all these creatures are relicts, leftover life from some
world that no longer exists. They exist by the laws of their former
homes and the terrible compromises they have had to make for survival's
sake, and they are almost invariably dangerous foes.

Relicts come in a wide range of potential power, from the verminous
swarms of beast-life that scavenge the bones of dead realms to
highly-developed proto-deities forged in some forgotten empire's
theotechnical laboratory-temples. Some of these creatures are
self-replicating, and can maintain their species in the harsher, poorer
conditions of their old home, while others are simply one-offs and
sports of nature made by some careless creator long ago. Heroes often
have to learn the distinctions between these creatures the hard way.

The Timeworn

Timeworn relicts are the product of realms that have collapsed into
chaos due to the incursions of Uncreated Night, the decay of the
celestial engines that supported it, or the reckless use of cataclysmic
magic. These creatures were once human, perhaps, but their desperate new
circumstances have forced them into terrible alterations and
degenerations in order to survive their new environment. Even the beasts
of a dying realm might become timeworn through the influence of
malignant auras or the desperate engineering of surviving sorcerers.

Timeworn relicts are shaped to survive their current environment. Realms
where gravity has failed will have relicts capable of flight or
self-generated gravity, while those that have become airless will have
creatures that have no need for breath. Some will be able to synthesize
the necessities of life out of bare rock or weak sunlight, while others
will have tremendous powers of regeneration to survive a world gone mad
with violence. A few will simply breed so quickly that they outrace
extinction by sheer velocity.

The timeworn are defined by hunger. They live in privation and need, and
their entire existence revolves around scraping out more of whatever
painfully rare resource enables them to live. Outsiders who seem to have
that resource will be pursued insatiably, while timeworn who manage to
find a Night Road into a fresher world will be raiders of unparalleled
rapaciousness.

Charismatic Godbound might be able to negotiate with timeworn, if only
under the prospect of bloody destruction. Others might have the power
and determination to actually repair whatever catastrophe has rendered
the timeworn's native realm so hostile. Any pantheon that is able to
redeem such a place would undoubtedly win an entire race of fanatically
devoted servitors to their worship.

The Automatons

The second major variety of relict are the automatons, the artificial
life forms left behind by a dead civilization. These creatures are
animated with magic or some forgotten technology that still functions in
this latter day of decaying natural law. Some adhere to their original
purpose, while others have developed something akin to free will in the
long centuries since their masters died.

Automatons are found both in conventional ruins and in the broken shells
of dead realms. They might remain inert until intruders are detected, or
they might have been corrupted by the damaged celestial engines and the
subtle warping of the natural law that went into their creation. Once
activated, they will attempt to carry out their original purpose, one
which usually involves protecting the site or serving those it
recognizes as lawful masters.

The Lusae

Perhaps the most wretched relicts are the lusae, the "jests" of an
uncertain natural law. These relicts have been twisted by the local
metaphysical environment and the failure of the celestial engines. They
have been subject to generations of warped natural law and are now
molded into something much less than their original state.

Time can make strange any living thing, and these lusae tend to be
utterly bizarre in their appearance and motivations. If they were ever
originally human, they've usually lost most recognizable human traits,
and often have bodies only nominally humanoid in outline. Bestial lusae
can look like anything at all after ten centuries of mutation.

Relict Powers and Use in Play

Lesser relicts might have no combat-relevant powers, but they're usually
shaped to survive their surroundings in some special way. They're most
useful in Mobs, or as occasional lieutenant-grade minions for more
powerful entities.

Automatons and lusae can make decent mid-level opposition for the
players, as they're often more individually powerful and can be given
several relevant Word gifts to represent their special abilities. Their
ordinary abilities aren't flexible enough to grant them full access to a
Word's miracles or to overpower Godbound gifts, but they can still harry
an inexperienced or unprepared pantheon.

  ------------------------------ ----------- ---------------------------- ------------------
  Timeworn Survivor                                                       
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5 to 7      [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   1 to 3      [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     15+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +Hit Dice   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d4 or by weapon
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     8           [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ------------------------------ ----------- ---------------------------- ------------------

These survivors are most likely to be a threat in Mobs, or if they have
access to powerful relic weaponry and devices. Such devices mimic a
gift, but function only once before needing a recharge. Most have no
combat-relevant special abilities aside from tremendous desperation.

  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Timeworn Survivor Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Snatch up food, valuables, or even marginally useful detritus from the surroundings and the dead.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Attack the target that seems richest in such things that the timeworn values, or at least the tastiest-looking foe.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Move to join up with the nearest group of allies, attacking whomever they're fighting.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Savage a downed enemy, killing them and taking their possessions or carving off chunks of meat.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Use a device or technology they've salvaged, or use an innate power if they have one. Otherwise, just attack.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Charge an appealing enemy with frenzied desperation, gaining a +4 bonus to their hit roll but being automatically hit by the next attack made against them.
  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Guardian Automaton                                                            
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   12                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     10+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   2d12 smash or blast
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   4
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

This particular relict was built for defense, and is enough to provide a
mild challenge for a novice pantheon or a serious opponent for a single
young Godbound. It usually has at least two or three combat-relevant
gifts and may act twice per round.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Guardian Automaton Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Self-repair 1d6 hit dice of damage. This requires both of its actions for the round.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Attack the nearest target, using both of its available actions to hammer them down.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Trigger a gift against the most threatening target around the automaton.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Assault the most badly-wounded or otherwise weakest-looking enemy in the area.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Spend an action calling for reinforcements or alerting its masters, even if they've been dead for centuries.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   As one action an electrical surge, burst of radiation, crackle of arcane magical force, or other sudden exhalation does 3d6 damage to all foes within melee range.
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------------
  Ancient Lusus                                                                 
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         4                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   20                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     8+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +14 x 3 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 bite straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     9                 [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   6
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------------

This ancient lusus has survived centuries of strange existence in its
forgotten corner of the world, and can overcome a novice godbound or tax
an inexperienced pantheon. It has two or three gifts and access to an
appropriate Word and its miracles. It acts twice per round.

  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Ancient Lusus Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Use one of its gifts against the opponent who has most aggravated it so far.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Trigger a miracle to somehow use the surrounding environment against its attackers.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Do something that seems utterly irrational or eerily human in nature for one round.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Hurl itself into a frenzied assault on a nearby victim. This uses both actions, but all three attacks auto-hit.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Flail wildly, spreading its available attacks evenly over all enemies within reach.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Goad its lesser brethren on, granting any feral allies a free action. If none are present, spend an action attacking a nearby foe, then use the other to get out of reach.
  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer227 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor163}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker349}Shapeshifters

Many of the Former Empires dabbled in experiments of human form, and
some of these went so far as to make their experiments heritable. Human
bloodlines were tainted with polymorphic potential, or entirely new
creations were lit with human souls and released to reproduce after
their own fashion.

A portion of these shapeshifters were given their powers in the course
of their civilization\'s transhuman experimentations, but many more were
made as they were to serve as infiltrators and assassins against a
hostile foe. With their ancient enemies long dead, these shapeshifting
survivors now exist as purposeless relics, many still programmed to
serve masters that are long since dust.

Aside from these natural shapeshifters, there are also those humans who
gain shapeshifting power as part of obscure low magic disciplines or
particularly virulent curses. The former can usually control their
instincts when adopting different forms, but the latter are often no
more than ravening beasts when the curse bites deep.

  ------------------------------- ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------
  Veteran Many-Skinned Assassin                                                  
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}          4                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}    15                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     8+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}      +10 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8 straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}      10                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   5
  ------------------------------- ----------------- ---------------------------- --------------

The Many-Skinned are a particular strain of shapeshifter found across
several realms. They are born and grow as seemingly normal, unremarkable
members of their society, but on their eighteenth birthday, a programmed
revelation irresistibly takes over their thoughts. Their ancient
gene-coding comes to the fore, and they become killers.

A Many-Skinned man or woman can adopt the form, voice, and clothing of
any humanoid they can imagine ranging from three to eight feet in
height, doing so as an On Turn action. They are always treated as worthy
foes for purposes of resisting mind-affecting or reading powers and can
Commit Effort to resist such things. On a successful save against a
telepathic power, they return whatever reading is least suspicious. The
Many-Skinned do not age, and some have grown superhumanly skilled over
the course of centuries.

Unfortunately, the programming that created them imbues them with an
irresistible compulsion to kill \"the enemy\"... which in most cases is
the ethnicity of people they were raised among. Most Many-Skinned are
horrified by this craving, and resist it as long as possible, but even
the iron-willed among them can\'t go longer than a month between
killings before becoming obsessed with carrying out a murder. A few have
found ways to simply [convince]{.CharOverride-2} themselves they have
killed one of the targeted group, in which case the genetic programming
is satisfied for a time.

Others simply give in to their urges and become terribly effective
assassins. Some of the best hired killers of a realm are often
Many-Skinned, even if their patrons never realize as much. High-value
targets often are protected by sorcerers and wards that can detect
shapeshifters, but less privileged victims have almost no chance of
avoiding a Many-Skinned\'s knife. The Many-Skinned given statistics here
is a veteran of centuries of murder. Aside from their listed statistics,
a GM should pick two or three lesser gifts for them from the Sword,
Deception, or Alacrity Words and allow them two actions per round in
combat.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor164}PC
Shapeshifters

A Godbound who uses a gift or miracle to adopt a different shape
normally acquires only the external seeming of that shape. If it can
breathe water, fly, run quickly, or navigate some other, more exotic
environment then the Godbound\'s new form can do so as well, but any
other special powers or senses the creature possesses that aren\'t
necessary for its basic survival are not obtained. Magical abilities are
certainly not acquired automatically, even if those are necessary for it
to live in its natural environment; special gifts are needed for that.

A transformed Godbound or mortal otherwise retains their attributes,
attack bonus, hit points or hit dice, armor class, and other statistics.
If using a creature\'s natural weaponry to attack, small but dangerous
creatures use a 1d6 damage die, wolf- or bear-sized ones use a 1d8
damage die, and larger creatures use a 1d10 damage die. Thus,
transforming a peasant farmer into a war elephant doesn\'t make him an
unstoppable gray titan of war, it just makes him a badly-coordinated
elephant that faints or dies after one good spear thrust.

Transformed creatures retain their intellect and identity unless the
power that transforms them indicates otherwise. If their identity is
lost in the transformation, it can be restored by undoing the change.
Those who lose their human intellect will behave in whatever way the
creature normally does, with intelligent creatures fabricating a prior
life story instinctively and responding very unkindly toward attempts to
disprove this prior history.

Some gifts may allow for a shapeshifter to Commit extra effort to gain
additional abilities from the form they adopt. In some cases these
abilities will function a particular way regardless of the creature\'s
hit dice, such as a monster\'s lethal gaze that turns victims into
stone. If the effect does dice of damage, however, it can\'t do more
dice than the original creature\'s level, or half their hit dice if they
don\'t have levels; a 1 HD peasant made into a dragon breathes a 1d8
fire breath.

Possessions that the shapeshifter is carrying either vanish when they
change form or remain with the shifter if they\'re capable of carrying
or manipulating the objects in their new form. Thus, a spear-carrying
lycanthrope that shifts from a human into a wolf-man form would still
have his spear, while transforming entirely into a wolf would cause the
spear to vanish. Such items reappear when the shifter turns back or is
killed.

If the shifting power is meant for purposes of disguise, such as an
ability that lets the user take the form of another person, their
possessions also shift to match an appropriate costume or equipage for
the form they are impersonating. Only mundane equipment changes this
way, and objects of notable value cannot be mimicked, but the change is
permanent until the shifter reverts it. Thus, it\'s not possible to
detect a shifter by stealing his mandarin\'s hat and seeing if it
transforms into a dirty skullcap once it\'s away from him.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer228 .Sidebar}
Shapeshifting for Combat Power

Shapeshifting alone isn\'t intended to be a way to augment a creature\'s
combat abilities. Turning a village of peasants into lions might be
impressive, but they\'ll still be lousy combatants. Godbound might
shapechange as a point of style during combat, or disguise, or as ambush
preparation, but the shape itself shouldn\'t grant significant combat
perks. As for transforming followers, use the rules on page
[[131]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor132)
to augment large groups of minions.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer229 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor165}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker350}Spirits

Not every enigmatic spiritual entity in the world is a parasite god or
restless ghost. Many realms teem with spirits of a different order,
intelligences and entities that are woven of sorcery or long-vanished
theotechnical artifice. These \"spirits\" come in many different
varieties and degrees of power, and a far-faring band of heroes can
expect to have their share of encounters with them.

Spirits originate in several different ways, sharing common traits based
on their manner of creation. Three types are particularly common, along
with a host of less-familiar varieties. [Elementals]{.CharOverride-3}
are non-sentient accretions of magical power, entities that evolve from
the ambient magical energies of a place. These spirits are usually
appear as primal expressions of untamed arcane force of a kind linked
with their place of origin. [Eidolons]{.CharOverride-3} are intelligent
entities related to greater undead, appearing when a person deeply
linked with a particular place, institution, or bloodline dies. Their
soul bonds with the iconographic energies of their locus and they become
a guardian spirit of that anchor. [Animas]{.CharOverride-3} are
artificial spirits, ones created by ancient theurgy or theotechnical
engineering to serve particular roles that may no longer have meaning in
the modern world.

Spirits are almost always fundamentally insubstantial creatures. In
order to interact with the mundane world, they need to use special
abilities or inhabit appropriate material shells. For elementals, this
is usually a lump of the appropriate physical matter or elemental
energy, while eidolons often possess human intruders or cultists, and
anima normally have physical bodies fashioned by their creators. Without
these shells, spirits have great difficulty in manipulating the material
world and cannot use their powers on physical targets.

Elementals are usually no more than natural hazards. They attack
intruders out of a vague predatory instinct, but rarely pursue targets
outside their natural range, as few can survive far from a place of
natural elemental power. Eidolons are obsessed with the preservation of
their locus, often with a desire for its advancement and expansion. The
eidolon of a cathedral will fight to defend it from defilers and
invaders, while the eidolon of a particular noble family will lend its
aid to protect and advance their kindred. Anima have their own purposes,
some still determined to follow ancient instructions while others have
broken free to be self-willed entities.

It\'s not unknown for spirits to seek worship from mortal cultists, if
only to provide them with a convenient supply of minions to further
their desires. A few are capable of gaining power through such worship,
though this is rare and the amount gained is usually much smaller
compared to that of a Godbound or a parasite god. Most spirits are
content to dwell in their own natural habitat, rising from slumberous
inattention only when petitioned by those wise to their ways or when
they are affronted by some intruder\'s slight.

Spirit Abilities

For a given spirit, pick two or three lesser gifts, though they can only
affect the world with them when materialized. Major or mighty spirits
may have powers equivalent to a bond with a Word. Spirits are immaterial
by nature and when dematerialized they can only be harmed by magical
effects, not by physical weapons or gift-empowered blows. Dematerialized
spirits are invisible to senses that cannot detect magic.

Spirits require a shell to materialize. Elementals can make one from
appropriate energies or matter, while animas are usually reliant on one
fashioned for them by their creators. In these cases, the spirit uses
its own hit dice and combat statistics when operating its shell.
Creating these shells takes at least a day for an elemental, while anima
shells take a day for a Godbound of Artifice to fabricate. Theotechnical
adepts can make a minor anima\'s shell in a week, masters can make a
major anima\'s shell in a month, and archmages can make a mighty
anima\'s shell in a year. Most animas cannot create their own shells.

Eidolons must possess living subjects, and can spend an action to take
over a lesser foe that fails a Spirit saving throw. If the spirit is
possessing a living creature, it uses the hit dice and armor class of
the creature, but its own hit bonus and damage. Eidolons of wild places
often inhabit monstrous carnivores or tribal shamans.

Spirits who are operating a shell when it is destroyed or killed are
automatically reduced to 1 hit die and are stunned and helpless for one
round. Spirits forcibly expelled from a living host by magic or a Word
are likewise stunned for a round, but retain their hit dice. A spirit
who wishes to intentionally disengage from a shell must spend an action
to do so. Most victims of eidolons remember nothing of what they did
while possessed.

  ------------------------------ -------------------------- -------------------------- ---------------------------
  Spirits                                                                              
                                 [Minor]{.CharOverride-7}   [Major]{.CharOverride-7}   [Mighty]{.CharOverride-7}
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5                          4                          3
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   5                          15                         30
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +5                         +10 x 2 strikes            Two auto-hits
  [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}     1d6 strike                 1d12 strike                1d8 straight
  [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}       30\' drift                 60\' drift                 90\' drift
  [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}       13+                        8+                         5+
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     9                          10                         11
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     2                          8                          12
  ------------------------------ -------------------------- -------------------------- ---------------------------

These spirits cover three of the common degrees of might for their kind.
Minor spirits are very dangerous to ordinary humans, but of little
consequences to Godbound. Major spirits might be the tutelary eidolons
of major noble houses or holy places, while a mighty spirit may be
acting as a false god to an entire nation or great city. Major and
mighty spirits can take two actions per round.

  ---------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Spirit Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Use one of its gifts against the last opponent to damage its shell.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Trigger a miracle to use elemental energy, an anima\'s fashioned purpose, or its host\'s abilities against a foe.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Do something that serves its purpose or focus, even if it\'s tactically imprudent or pointless.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Savagely assault the most obvious opponent of its purpose or nature, using all attacks against them.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Target the first intruder or initial enemy to catch the spirit\'s attention with all its attacks.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Use a gift to boost itself, heal damage, or otherwise empower itself. If it\'s defending a particular area, draw on the area\'s power or nature as flavor for the effect.
  ---------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer230 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor166}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker351}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor167}Summoned
Entities

The arts of the low magic traditions sometimes include spells of
summoning and invocation. The adepts of the Cinnabar Order are notable
for their power to summon creatures of primal flame, while any
well-trained theotechnician can build golem-like drones to obey their
will. The other common traditions of Arcem lack any established
tradition of summoning, but reckless magi or natural prodigies sometimes
develop ways of bending their arts to call up arcane minions.

Summoning Minions with Low Magic

Of the low magic traditions described in this book, only the Cinnabar
Order and the theotechnicians have common traditions of summoning or
minion creation. Other traditions might be able to call up similar
entities, but the knowledge would be the jealously-guarded lore of
masters of the path or a secret to be unearthed from a long-lost
grimoire. PCs would need to obtain such knowledge before they could
summon creatures with the art. As a general rule, adepts can summon 2 HD
minions, masters can call 4 HD ones, and archmages can summon 8 HD
servitors with superior abilities.

A few magi are reckless or foolish enough to make pacts with potent
Uncreated powers from beyond the borders of the realm. These entities
are difficult to contact, but any competent sorcerer can make the
invariably-bloody attempt to catch their notice.

Those sorcerers who find an Uncreated entity willing to receive their
service become pacted devotees of the being, often gaining substantial
amounts of arcane power and acquiring the ability to summon Uncreated
shades with their spells. Adepts can summon 3 HD shades, masters can
summon 6 HD shades, and archmages of a low magic tradition can call
forth a terrible 10 HD Unbidden. Uncreated summonings usually require
some form of blood sacrifice, either immediately or afterwards, before
more entities can be called.

Pacted sorcerers can go for years without paying any price for the aid
they receive, but those who live long enough inevitably find their
patron demanding dreadful services. This obedience slowly warps both
their magic and their bodies with the influence of Uncreated Night. Most
are forced to flee to isolation before their brethren recognize what
monsters they\'ve become.

Summoning Minions with Words

A Godbound or a major supernatural entity might be able to directly use
the powers of the Words to call up minions of their own. Both the
Cinnabar Order summons and the golems of the theotechnicians can be used
as examples of the kind of creatures that a Godbound can summon,
reflavored for whatever Word the summoner is using.

Barring some specialized gift, these minions last only one scene.
Miracles that call up minions require the usual Committing Effort for
the day, while even a gift probably requires that the Effort be
committed for at least the scene. Minions are totally loyal to the PC.

As a general rule, Godbound can summon minions of hit dice no greater
than twice their character level, up to a maximum of 10 hit dice, and
cannot call Uncreated minions. These entities should not normally have
any abilities that the Godbound doesn\'t have, or else the GM might find
the PCs conveniently calling up servitors that have exactly the powers
they need for the situation at hand. Summoned creatures should not
normally have gifts or other powers more fitting to a true divinity. The
creatures statted here provide examples of what these summoned minions
might look like.

  ------------------------------ --------------- ---------------------------- ----------------
  Cinnabar Spark                                                              
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5               [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' flight
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   2 or 4          [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     14+ or 13+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +Hit Dice x 2   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6 flame bolt
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12              [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ------------------------------ --------------- ---------------------------- ----------------

The incandescent sparks summoned by the Cinnabar Order are dangerous,
unpredictable creatures that are almost as hazardous to their summoner
as to their supposed targets. The sparks obey no orders except to burn,
(or not burn) particular targets, and vanish at the end of the scene.
They are intelligent, but do not communicate in any comprehensible way.
At least a gallon of water hurled on a spark with a hit against AC 9
will inflict a 1d8 damage die on it.

  ---------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Spark Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Fly 30' to a better position on the battlefield.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Attack the most flammable-looking target
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Burn the most flammable unattended object in range
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Use its action to gout forth a halo of flame, inflicting a 1d4 damage die on everything within 10 feet
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene to blaze forth as an Instant action, forcing all hit rolls against it to roll twice and take the worst until the beginning of next round.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Expend one hit die to make two extra bolt attacks
  ---------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ---------------- ---------------------------- -----------------
  Cinnabar Conflagration                                                       
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5                [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60\' flight
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   8                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     11+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +8 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 flame bolt
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12               [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   3
  ------------------------------ ---------------- ---------------------------- -----------------

An entity of quintessential fire, the Conflagration can be called forth
only by an archmage of the Cinnabar Order. It is exceedingly dangerous
if it is allowed to run wild; it will continue burning or trying to burn
something every round it exists. If its summoner is killed or knocked
out, it will rampage indiscriminately for the rest of the scene. Water
can harm it just as a spark is harmed.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Conflagration Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Fly 60\' toward the largest amount of burnables present.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Use its action to drop a firebomb on a point within sight, doing a 1d10 die of damage to all within 20\'.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an Instant to shimmer with heat, gaining immunity to non-magical weapons until the start of its next round.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Use its action to attack a target. If it hits, it clings like napalm, automatically hitting the next round as well.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an action to enshroud a foe, automatically doing a 1d12 damage die.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Expend one hit die to make two extra bolt attacks.
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ --------------- ---------------------------- --------------------------
  Theotechnical Drone                                                         
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         4               [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' flight or 60\' wheel
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   2 or 4          [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     14+ or 13+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +Hit Dice x 2   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6 blades or bolt
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12              [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ------------------------------ --------------- ---------------------------- --------------------------

These drones can be fashioned in both wheeled and flying versions, and
require 1 Wealth point worth of components for their creation. While
non-sentient, they respond intelligently to their creator\'s orders.
Miracles of Artifice can deactivate them as an act of offensive
dispelling, though they can be re-enchanted without further cost.

  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Drone Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Approach nearest target to engage.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Focus fire on the largest enemy present.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an Instant action to minimize incoming damage, decreasing all sources of harm by 1 point until the start of the next round.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Focus fire on the most obviously injured target present.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Focus fire on the last creature to damage it.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene to spray projectile fire, gaining an extra two bolt attacks for the round.
  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ---------------- ---------------------------- --------------------
  Theotechnical Iconodule                                                      
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3                [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40\' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   8                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     11+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +8 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8 bolt or blades
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12               [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   3
  ------------------------------ ---------------- ---------------------------- --------------------

These looming humanoid automatons stand half again as tall as a human,
inscribed with the guttering sigils of dead gods. The iconodule is
powered by remnants of worship which their theotechnician creator has
harnessed. Iconodules are notoriously unstealthy creations, as they
constantly thrum with half-comprehensible echoes of ancient unanswered
prayers. Building an iconodule requires the expertise of a theotechnical
archmage and 2 points of Wealth in components. Very old iconodules are
known to sometimes develop a form of self-will.

  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Iconodule Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Charge the most insulting or impertinent enemy.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an Instant action to become immune to non-magical weapons or sources of harm until the start of your next round.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Distribute attacks evenly among all visible foes.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an On Turn action to crackle with electricity. Each melee hit it takes inflicts 1 damage on the attacker until the start of the next round.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Focus fire on the most visibly injured foe in sight.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the day as an action and restore 2 hit dice of damage suffered during this scene.
  ---------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ --------------- ---------------------------- -------------------
  Uncreated Shade                                                             
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5               [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40\' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   3 or 6          [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     14+ or 12+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +Hit Dice x 2   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d4 claw straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10              [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   2
  ------------------------------ --------------- ---------------------------- -------------------

Uncreated shades are summoned in countless monstrous shapes and forms,
all brought to reality by the reckless summoning of a pacted sorcerer.
They usually disappear at the end of the scene, to reappear in some far
place as a free-willed monstrosity, but some pacted sorcerers can make
offerings terrible enough to convince it to linger.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Shade Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Scuttle toward the weakest-looking target in sight.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Launch attacks randomly at foes within reach.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an Instant to defensively dispel the next incoming gift or miracle used against it.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an Instant to ignore physical barriers between it and its target.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Rip and tear at a downed foe, ignoring active enemies.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Utter a horrific shriek or blasphemous utterance that forces all NPCs of 3 hit dice or less to check Morale.
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- -------------------
  Uncreated Unbidden                                                            
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60\' flight
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   10                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     10+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +10 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6 bolt straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   4
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- -------------------

The Unbidden are horrific entities brought forth only through the work
of the most accomplished pacted sorcerers. They come in as many shapes
as their lesser shade brethren, but all of them are gruesomely misshapen
or warped. Unbidden serve their summoners for a set period before
obtaining their freedom to do as they will; quick summons only ever last
a scene, but a sufficiently large offering can persuade an Unbidden to
serve for a year and a day. Careless summoners can find themselves more
servant than master to an Unbidden.

  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Unbidden Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene to create 1 point of the [Cold Breath]{.CharOverride-3} as per the Uncreated creature description. It can do this only once per scene.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Focus all attacks on the most badly-injured enemy.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Focus all attacks on an otherwise-unharmed foe.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an Instant to negate the next gift used against it as if by defensive dispelling.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Commit Effort for the scene as an action to automatically hit a foe with a 1d8 straight damage entropic blast.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Exhale a cloud of corrosive smoke that inflicts a 1d8 damage die on everything within 30 feet of it.
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer231 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor168}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker352}Uncreated

The endless chaos of Uncreated Night gouts forth strange life from time
to time. These creatures curdle into existence deep within the void, but
sometimes they find a way into more terrestrial spheres through the
Night Roads, or infest shards of Heaven or the outer precincts of Hell.
Some sages believe that they are a product of the friction between the
created world and the void beyond, which explains why they so often have
shapes and minds that are at least partially comprehensible to humans.
Unfortunately, they are universally malevolent and hostile entities.

Uncreated look like warped and monstrous creatures, often assembled from
seemingly-random parts and misshapen fragments. They usually have an
overall theme to their outline, like that of a human or mundane beast,
but the individual components are mismatched and twisted. They are
innately horrifying and disorienting to behold, their very presence
curdling the mundane reality around them.

Uncreated have strange and hostile purposes within the realm, clustering
around Night Roads or striking out to defile places that are important
to a realm's coherence. They seem to exist for purposes of entropy and
negation, with this world's natural laws as loathsome to them as their
own congealed madness is to humanity. They appear to have human
intellects, if not more so, yet their reasoning is often bent to
purposes that appear arbitrary or pointlessly sadistic.

Uncreated are known for sometimes striking bargains with reckless
sorcerers, offering secrets from beyond the borders of the realm and
liberty from the constraining laws that fetter their magical powers.
While the power they offer is real, the price in obediences and
transformation is often an unendurable one.

Uncreated Powers and Suppression

To Godbound, the most disturbing trait of the Uncreated is their ability
to absorb and suppress divine power. These abilities are usually
expressed in two special powers possessed by almost every Uncreated.

[The Black Consumption]{.CharOverride-3} is an Uncreated's native power
to absorb Godbound gifts. If the creature is directly targeted by a
Word\'s gift or miracle, it can Commit Effort for the scene to negate it
as if it were dispelled by a successful defensive miracle. Every
Uncreated has this ability, making them extremely dangerous foes to the
divine.

[The Cold Breath]{.CharOverride-3} makes it harder for any Godbound to
use their abilities in the creature's presence. Depending on the power
of the Uncreated and the GM\'s discretion, a Godbound must Commit from 1
to 5 points of Effort to overcoming the Cold Breath before they can
Commit Effort for any other purpose. If multiple Uncreated are present,
only the strongest Cold Breath must be overcome. The Effort can be
reclaimed once the creature is defeated or the Godbound flees.

Aside from these two abilities, most Uncreated have effective access to
several gifts and a Word related to their nature. Words expressed by the
Uncreated are always perverted in some way, with Fire's flames burning
black and cold, Water expressed as a torrent of half-congealed gore, and
Night bringing a suffocating sensation of burial alive rather than
simple darkness. These effects are largely cosmetic, but the Words of an
Uncreated can always be used to counter Godbound gifts as if its
miracles were appropriate to the purpose.

Individual Uncreated may have additional powers or traits. Scholars have
identified some general types to the entities, but there seem to be an
unlimited number of uniquely hideous examples of their kind.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer232 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
  ------------------------------ ---------------- ---------------------------- ------------
  Stalking Horror                                                              
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         6                [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40' slink
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   7                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     11+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +8 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 claws
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10               [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   3
  ------------------------------ ---------------- ---------------------------- ------------

This variety of horror is rarely found alone, usually acting in small
groups to stalk and slaughter its prey. Some are intelligent enough to
mimic humanity for short periods of time, and have Words of Deception to
trick others into bloody misfortunes. In the worst cases, they appear as
full-fledged Mobs of monstrously hungry foes.

  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Stalking Horror Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Vanish into a shadow or other place of concealment. So long as it doesn't attack, it takes a saving throw to see it.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Use a gift against the most concealed or sheltered of its foes, preferring enemies in the back lines.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Leap, teleport, or dart as liquid shadows toward a distant foe and attack them with all available actions.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Use a miracle of its Word to baffle, misdirect, or influence its enemies into attacking or tangling each other.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Assault a single foe in a hysterical frenzy. Every attack it makes that action will invariably hit, but it's automatically hit by any enemy attack until its next turn.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Create painful divine feedback with an action. The next gift used by a Godbound does 1d8 damage to them.
  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Hulking Abomination                                                           
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     50' lurch
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   30                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +15 x 3 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 smash straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   10
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

This might be a roiling blob of tentacular, acidic protoplasm or it
might be a towering colossus of night and tangible screams. The very
sight of it forces a Morale check in NPCs. Some of these abominations
are known to force humans to set up cults around their worship,
parodying the devotions of the faithful. It can act twice per round.

  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Hulking Abomination Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Smash the earth or a nearby structure, opening a crack into Night that does 4d6 damage to all nearby.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Charge the most defiant enemy present and strike with all available attacks.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Sweep a blow around itself as one of its actions, giving it an attack against all foes within 10 feet.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Use its Word to debilitate or snare an enemy with one action; use the other action to attack this foe.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Utter a blasphemous, maddening phrase; all who hear it must save or make a free attack on a nearby ally.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Devour a downed foe and gain its maximum hit dice as healing. If no corpses in nearby reach, vomit caustic entropy on a target for 5d10 damage.
  ---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer233 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker353}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor169}Undead

The undead of the realms are products of fear, longing, and dark
sorcery. Ever since the fall of Heaven and the corruption of Hell the
prospect of an agonizing afterlife has filled countless men and women
with dread. While the rites of the Unitary Church, the ancestor cults,
and other true faiths can serve to anchor a soul to its native realm in
peaceful sleep, not every spirit has the advantage of that shelter.
Those who die alone and far from solace might still cling to this world
for fear of what comes next.

Others simply cannot endure the idea of leaving their work unfinished,
and are sealed to their decaying corpses by their unquenchable will.
Even when a spirit is absent and only the dead flesh remains, a skilled
sorcerer can imbue the husk with a kind of half-life to create a
mindless servitor.

Lesser and Greater Undead

Undead come in two kinds: lesser and greater. Lesser undead are purely
corporeal in nature, dead bodies animated by magical power and imbued
with a kind of half-intellect by the spell. They are not sentient, nor
are they aware of the corpse's prior life save in vague, brief flickers
of habitual action.

Lesser undead obey their creator. When left to their own devices, they
ape the habits of the living as their animating force expresses human
urges in strange, dangerous ways. The urge to eat is a particularly
violent one, but their other fumbling efforts can be even more horrific.
The raising of lesser undead is usually outlawed in most societies,
though special permission can sometimes be granted to
politically-connected wizards or the priesthood of important gods.

Greater undead are qualitatively different. They have a human soul at
their core, either animating a decaying corpse or manifesting as an
insubstantial wraith. Their minds are usually dulled by the decay of
their flesh or the confusion of their death, but they can remember their
living days and reason as humans do. Spells to create them are
substantially more difficult, and most necromancers must take care to
keep greater undead safely bound.

Most societies are even more firmly opposed to the creation of greater
undead, but a few view them in a more ambiguous light. Some cultures
permit their most exalted members to exist in the eternal half-life of
undeath, while some ancestor-worshipers physically enshrine their
beloved dead as undying councilors.

Greater undead vary widely depending on the spells or processes that
create them. Some are relatively clear-minded and able to think and act
freely, while others have terrible thirsts for flesh or blood to sustain
their decaying remains. However clear-minded they begin, however, most
grow steadily more alien over the centuries as their undying nature
separates them further from the humans around them.

Undead in Combat

Lesser undead are mostly useful in Mobs to delay or wear down the
heroes. Particularly large or powerful lesser undead can make good
lieutenant-minions for necromancers, and might have a gift or two to
represent the spells that have empowered them.

Greater undead usually range in power from lesser individual foes, such
as the war-draugr of the Ulstang raiders, to extremely potent undead
warlords or mummified high priests. High-end greater undead usually have
several gifts to mimic whatever special abilities they wielded in life.

  ------------------------------ ---- ---------------------------- -------------
  Ancalian Husks                                                   
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         9    [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' stagger
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   1    [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     15+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +1   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6 gnaw
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12   [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   None
  ------------------------------ ---- ---------------------------- -------------

The eruption of the Night Roads in Ancalia has produced the dreaded
Hollowing Plague which makes risen corpses of its victims. The desperate
husks of those slain rise now as lesser undead, swarming in Mobs to
devour the living. They lack any tactic more sophisticated than piling
onto a living creature, but persistent rumors speak of stranger
varieties that have terrible powers and far more hardihood.

  ------------------------------ ---- ---------------------------- --------------------
  War-Draugr                                                       
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3    [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40' lurch
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   5    [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     12+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +7   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 smashing blow
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12   [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   1
  ------------------------------ ---- ---------------------------- --------------------

The biggest and best-preserved of the wretched draugr of Ulstang are
swathed in mail and iron plates to become war-draugr. These greater
undead obey a raid's war-captain and his lieutenants, and sometimes
display a gift from the Sword or Endurance Words as a reflection of
their living might. Most are desperate for their own destruction in
battle, fearing Hell less than the torment of their current existence.

  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Dried Lord                                                                    
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     50' shamble
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   25                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +15 x 2 attacks   [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d12 crush straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12                [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   10
  ------------------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

This greater undead corpse houses the burning soul of a great warlord or
mighty high priest. More magically-inclined undead are better treated as
Eldritch, but this entity probably has at least a half-dozen gifts
reflecting their living talents, and perhaps even a Word. It can act
three times per round and imperil even a full pantheon.

  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Dried Lord Tactics
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Order its minions into battle, granting them a free action. If no servants, attack the nearest enemy.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Trigger an offensive gift against the most threatening enemy in the opposing group.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Relive an ancient moment of glory, reminiscing about it and using a gift now as it did back in the former event.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Inhale the life force of the creatures around it as two actions, inflicting 4d6 damage on all enemies present.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Lay about with its weapon or bolts of deathly force, spreading its attacks evenly over all foes present.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Exhibit incredible resilience. This takes two actions, but leaves it with an invincible defense against physical damage until the start of its next round.
  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer234 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor170}Creating
New Foes

Given the habits of heroic player characters, it\'s inevitable that
you\'ll need to conjure up a substantial number of new monsters,
malefactors, vengeful deities, and tragically misled local heroes for
the PCs to face. This section equips you with the necessary tools and
information for brewing up such suitably trenchant foes.

The table below offers a few basic stat lines for some of the more
common enemies that the heroes might face. Very few of them are capable
of giving a pantheon of Godbound a significant challenge alone. Most of
the minor enemies will need to appear as Mobs in order to give a decent
fight to the PCs, while even the more powerful entities will need a
thick buffer of cultists or minions in order to keep them from being
swamped by focused PC fire.

Even so, these minor foes need to exist in your world. If the only
enemies the PCs ever face are parasite gods, furious angelic tyrants,
and mighty theurge-Eldritch of yore, they\'re going to start to feel
like very small fish in their particular pond. Regular encounters with
foes that really aren\'t in the same league as even a novice Godbound
will help give the proper sense of proportion to your world, and
encourage the PCs to see themselves as the mighty heroes they are.

Of course, the frequency of their encounters with such enemies will be
largely up to the players. Godbound who keep a low profile, avoid
antagonizing the rulers of a realm, and who shun direct confrontations
with their enemies might very rarely find themselves in a fight. The
most fastidious might save their divine wrath exclusively for those
enemies that are truly worth the best they can give in a fight. Even so,
when a band of light cavalry or a tribe of Misbegotten mannikins decides
to make war on these new demigods, you\'ll want to have something on
hand.

When brewing up your abominations, don\'t forget the tremendous wealth
of existing monstrosities to be found in the old-school gaming material
that already exists. Much of it is available for free on the net, or in
low-cost print editions, and you can import almost all of it for use in
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}. A passage at the end of this section will
help you make the modifications necessary to turn it into a suitable
nemesis for divinely-imbued heroes, though you can always use such
entities as Mob fodder or the swarming lieutenants of a greater evil.

Using This Section

To use these tools, first decide what it is you need to create. Give
your creature a rough description, one heavy on adjectives. You want to
be able to see this creature in your mind\'s eye and imagine how it
should look and act when confronting the heroes.

Next, decide whether or not to use an example stat line from the table
below. If you want to brew up something more powerful than is depicted
on the table, use the guidelines on the opposite page to assemble your
creature\'s stat block.

Now draw up a tactics table for the creature. Usually six entries is
enough to cover what you need to remember at the table. The following
pages offer various suggestions on what kind of powers, movement modes,
or attack patterns the creature might have. Because powerful foes often
have more combat options and special powers than a standard grubby
bandit, it\'s often handy to have the reminders that a tactics table can
provide you during play. With that, you now have a newly-polished
abomination ready to hurl upon the PCs.

Balancing Monsters

When you\'re first starting out with [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}, it\'s
almost certain that you\'re going to misjudge the effectiveness of a foe
against the pantheon. You\'re going to make up something that shreds the
PCs mercilessly, or you\'ll bring out a fearsome foe that gets hammered
to pulp in a round by judicious use of the PCs\' gifts.

This is a natural step in getting to know your pantheon and the game.
Different groups of heroes are going to have very different levels of
combat capability, and a pantheon brim-full of deities of war is going
to mulch things a lot faster than a pantheon that focuses on powers of
restoration and creation.

If the PCs end up trashing the foe more quickly than you expected,
there\'s no harm done. PCs being PCs, they\'ll inevitably push on to
greater enemies, and you\'ll have the chance to benefit by what you\'ve
learned. Conversely, if you find you\'ve accidentally overdone the
challenge and given them a foe much too powerful to fit the role it
should play, you can always encourage the heroes to beat a noble
retreat. Even the gods themselves must sometimes find valor in divine
discretion.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer235 .Single-Column}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- ----- ----------------- -------------- ------ ---- ------ --------
  Types of Foes                                                                                                         HD       AC    Attack            Dmg            Move   ML   Save   Effort
  Common Human                                                                                                          1        9     +0                1d6            30'    7    15+    1
  Elite Normal Human                                                                                                    2 or 3   5     +4                1d10           30'    9    14+    1
  High-end Mortal Hero                                                                                                  8        3     +10 x 2 attacks   1d8+5          30'    11   11+    4
  Great Hero of a Land                                                                                                  12       3     +10 x 2 attacks   1d6 straight   30\'   11   9+     6 ¶
  Savage Pack Beast                                                                                                     1        8     +2                1d6            40'    8    15+    1
  Savage Lone Predator                                                                                                  4        6     +7 x 2 attacks    1d8+2          40'    8    13+    1
  Minor Monstrous Vermin                                                                                                1        8     +1                1d6            30\'   8    15+    1
  Minor Humanoid Monster                                                                                                2        7     +3                1d8            30\'   9    14+    1
  Monstrous Chieftain                                                                                                   7        4     +9 x 2 attacks    1d12           40\'   10   12+    2
  Angry Spirit                                                                                                          6        5\*   +7 x 2 attacks    1d8            30\'   12   12+    2 ¶
  Hulking Undead Thing                                                                                                  12       6\*   +10 x 3 attacks   1d12           40\'   12   9+     4 ¶
  Greater Undead Revenant                                                                                               10       5\*   +10 x 2 attacks   1d6 straight   30\'   11   10+    3 ¶
  Divine Monstrous Beast                                                                                                20       7\*   +10 x 3 attacks   1d8 straight   60\'   10   8+     5 ¶
  \* these creatures can be harmed only by magical weapons. ¶ these creatures should have Words or appropriate gifts.                                                                      
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- ----- ----------------- -------------- ------ ---- ------ --------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer236 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor171}Assembling
the Creature\'s Statistics

Choose Hit Dice

Normal human beings and lesser monsters shouldn\'t have more than five
hit dice, and ordinary humans should rarely have more than one without
some special hardihood or martial talent. These foes aren\'t likely to
be much concern to a hero if they\'re not in a Mob, and that\'s entirely
acceptable; there\'s no point in being a demigod if you\'re never
encountering lesser foes for your powers to overwhelm.

Creatures meant to be meaningful solo threats to the pantheon should
have a minimum of twice the pantheon\'s total levels in hit dice, plus
ten. Anything fewer, and they\'re liable to get mowed down by focused
fire from [Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} or similar expensive \"alpha
strike\" powers. If the creature uses its Effort on judicious defensive
dispellings, however, this many hit dice should keep it alive long
enough to fight.

Choose its Armor Class

Normal humans have an AC of 9. Soldiers and other martially-equipped
sorts should have ACs of 5 to 7, as should bestial foes with tough hide
or notable agility. Armor classes lower than that should be the preserve
of especially armored enemies, such as warriors in heavy plate armor or
monsters with supernatural hardihood. Even the toughest foes shouldn\'t
have an AC lower than 0 unless their incredible resilience is a special
and noteworthy trait.

Choose its Numbers of Attacks

Normal human beings get to roll one attack per attack action. Heroic
mortal warriors might manage to bump that up to two or even three attack
rolls per action, distributed as they see fit among available foes. Wild
beasts and terrible monsters often get multiple attacks, but you usually
don\'t want to give them more than three attacks per action. Frenetic
enemies that strike even more quickly than that might exist, but it
should be a distinctive trait for them.

Choose its Attack Damage

Pick an appropriate description from the table below and decide whether
the creature has a particularly weak or strong attack. Assign the listed
damage die to the creature\'s attacks. If it has multiple attacks per
action, you might make two of them weaker than the third.

If the creature is meant to be a major enemy that rolls damage straight,
drop one die from its damage roll. If it only has one damage die, shrink
the die by one step, so a 1d8 normal attack turns into a 1d6 straight
damage die.

  --------------------- ------ -------- --------
  Foe                   Weak   Medium   Strong
  Ordinary Human        1d4    1d6      1d8
  Trained Fighter       1d6    1d8      1d10
  Dangerous Beast       1d4    1d6      1d10
  Magical Beast         1d6    1d8      1d12
  Mighty Hero           1d8    1d10     1d12
  Minor Monster         1d4    1d6      1d8
  Significant Monster   1d8    1d10     1d12
  Dire Monster          2d6    2d8      2d12
  Divine Enemy          2d8    2d10     3d10
  --------------------- ------ -------- --------

Pick a Movement Rate and Type

For ordinary humans, this is 30\' per movement action. This step is only
really consequential if the creature should have a drastically faster
movement rate than a normal human, or if it has some unusual movement
mode, such as flight, teleportation, burrowing, or other novelty. The
page that follows offers some suggestions for spicing up the more exotic
enemies.

Determine Its Morale

Common civilians have a Morale of around 7, and are probably going to
flee the moment a Godbound starts unleashing their more blatant powers.
Only worry about Morale checks for them if they have some compelling
reason to stand and fight. Ordinary soldiers who are at least somewhat
inured to battle should have a Morale of 8, and hardened human veterans
should have a Morale of 9. Scores above that are the province of the
elite and the desperately determined.

For monsters and other supernatural entities, mindless foes should have
a Morale of 12, while other entities should be judged based on their own
degrees of personal confidence or cautious prudence. A failed Morale
check for such an entity doesn\'t necessarily mean a terrified rout.
Powerful entities might simply decide that this is a bad situation to
fight in, and make a calculated retreat in anticipation of a second,
more favorable match.

Set Its Saving Throw

Most creatures should have a saving throw of 15, minus 1 for each 2 full
hit dice it has down to a minimum of 9 or better. If the creature is
exceptionally powerful, you might let it go lower, but anything lower
than 5+ should be reserved for truly fearsome enemies that you don\'t
want to have pecked to death by a wave of save-or-lose powers from
hostile Godbound. While any major enemy can still Commit Effort to
auto-succeed on a failed save, if their saving throw is too high, they
can end up bleeding away their Effort just fending off the miracles and
gifts that the PCs throw at it.

Pick Words, Gifts, and Special Abilities

The pages that follow include suggestions for special powers that you
might give a creature. Minor foes might have one, or two at most, while
major enemies might have bound entire Words and have several
combat-relevant gifts to record. Great enemies should always have at
least one Word bound, or some ability that lets them dispel Godbound
gifts defensively. Otherwise, they can easily get swamped by a volley of
[Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} gifts launched by a pantheon.

Give major enemies multiple actions in a turn. Significant foes should
have two, while very great enemies should have three. For each action,
the enemy can move and use its entire attack sequence, or else trigger
one of its offensive abilities.

Determine Its Effort

Finally, give it an Effort score. Normal humans have 1 point of Effort,
but they can\'t use it for much. It only matters when someone tries to
use magical healing on them, as that usually requires that the recipient
Commit Effort for the day to benefit from the healing. For monsters,
divinities, heroic humans, and other creatures that have more use for
Effort, about 1 Effort per 3 hit dice is a good balance.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer237 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor172}Attacks,
Defenses, and Movement

A perfectly standard hit roll and damage die can serve for a lot of
foes, but for important enemies, you\'ll usually want something more
interesting. The tables here provide some suggestions for novel movement
modes, attack patterns, and defensive abilities for a major foe. You can
also use them for less important enemies who might have a trick or two
to complicate the heroes\' lives.

The attack patterns here describe potential tactics for the creature. If
it doesn\'t have enough attacks to carry out a particular pattern, like
targeting several of them at an unarmed foe, you can either modify the
tactic or simply give the creature a special ability that triggers when
it uses the tactic.

A creature\'s defenses are often associated with its other powers. An
angelic entity of living flame is unlikely to be harmed by fire, for
instance, and a storm-spirit is not apt to be injured by a lightning
strike. Other defensive abilities are oriented more toward avoiding a
hazard or sidestepping attacks, possibly in conjunction with the
creature\'s novel mode of movement. A teleporting entity might simply
vanish out of the way of things liable to harm them.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer238 .Single-Column}
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d6                     Movement Options
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   It moves through conventional walking or running. Optionally, choose an adjective to flavor your description of its movement, such as skittering, loping, crawling, lurching, pouncing, or gliding
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   It flies, whether by physical wings, visible currents of energy, or seemingly sourceless levitation. Natural creatures will usually have to land to fight, or else rely on swooping dives that might make them immune to melee counter-attacks unless the victim waits to strike
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   It teleports. Some creatures simply vanish from one place and appear at another within range. Others move through a specific medium, such as leaping into one shadow and emerging from another. Some might be able to appear in special surroundings, such as a prepared location. A few might be called by particular rituals, or even appear in the presence of a specific thought
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   The creature is effectively immobile, either too slow to move meaningfully in combat or actually fixed in place. Some creatures might be restricted to a very narrow area by magic or necessity. The creature will need ranged attack options or an environment that forces melee engagement if it's to prove a significant challenge
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   It inhabits an unusual medium, whether swimming through water or navigating through clouds of fire, passing through stone walls, or existing only in areas of darkness. Some creatures may have a different means of ordinary movement, but can treat this particular medium as easily passable
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   It moves abruptly from place to place, but passes through the space between. It might shoot weblines and swing around, or jump rapidly to locations within sight, or move with tremendous speed from one spot to another. Some creatures might require a particular medium between these locations, such as an unbroken body of water or cloud of smoke
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer239 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d10                     Attack Patterns
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    It throws Strong attacks at single targets, or Weak area attacks on several foes. The principle here is that single-target attacks should be stronger than attacks that hit multiple targets. These might be weapon strikes, energy bolts, cleaving blows at nearby enemies, flurries of projectiles, or explosive detonations of energy
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    It assails its last target, stepping the attack up a rank from its normal intensity as its momentum builds
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    It alters the environment in some way to make it a Weak damaging attack to foes within the zone or inflict an Average impairment on them
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Its attack delivers an impairment one rank stronger for a round if it hits
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    It launches multiple Medium attacks at different targets
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    It launches several Weak attacks at the same target
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    It launches several Strong attacks at an otherwise unharmed opponent
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    It inflicts a Strong impairment on foes in melee range, or lobs it as an area effect on ranged assailants
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    It uses a Strong attack against the last foe to attack it
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   It inflicts a Medium impairment on an area with its powers and gets a free Medium ranged attack on anyone who then leaves the area
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer240 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d10                     Defensive Abilities
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    The creature\'s impervious to a type of energy it uses or a particular hazard it employs as an attack
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    It\'s so ferocious that damage done to it is deferred by a round, allowing it to keep fighting for a round after being reduced to zero hit dice
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    It\'s extremely adaptive, gaining immunity or resistance to the last type of damage it\'s suffered
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    In packs, it\'s superbly coordinated and able to ensure that wounded members are shielded from attacks by uninjured allies
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    It can coordinate with its allies to gain bonuses to armor class or restrict the number of attacks that can target it in a round
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    It counterattacks when struck, or produces some noxious consequence for being harmed
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    It gets faster as it\'s hurt, gaining extra actions or attacks when reduced below half its maximum hit dice
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    It can sacrifice actions to throw up a strong defense, gaining an AC bonus or reducing incoming damage
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    It automatically nullifies certain gifts or magical powers that target it, possibly by Committing Effort
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   It plays dead or defeated when reduced to zero hit dice, but springs up a few rounds later, healed to a degree
  ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer241 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor173}Impairing
Powers

A straight attack is useful for peeling hit points off the heroes, but
for complicating their lives further an impairing power is often most
convenient. These abilities usually take an action to trigger, but can
change the battlefield, curse the target, or invoke some other calamity
on the foe.

The examples below are broken into three different degrees of
impairment: weak, medium, and strong. When using them or building your
own, there are a few basic guidelines to keep in mind.

Weak impairments shouldn\'t cripple or eliminate aspects of the target.
They should inflict die penalties, hinder movement, lower the damage the
target can inflict, or otherwise weaken the target in non-prohibitive
ways. If the penalty is so great as to make a targeted quality useless,
the impairment is stronger than a weak impairment should be.

Medium impairments can foreclose certain sorts of actions, but
shouldn\'t be so strong as to take a target entirely out of the fight. A
power that fixes the victim in place might eliminate their ability to
move, but it still lets them use ranged attacks or other abilities not
reliant on closing with a foe. Medium impairments can also inflict
serious penalties on a target\'s traits, such that the victim is easily
overcome by attacks on that crippled trait.

Strong impairments can take a hero entirely out of the fight. Such
fight-ending powers should usually involve a saving throw, which will
allow Godbound PCs to Commit Effort to save if they fail the roll. Those
who run out of Effort are susceptible to catastrophe, however, if their
comrades don\'t have an action free to offensively dispel the effect
when the enemy launches it.

Strong impairments can also launch damaging or hindering effects that
effectively doom the PC to rapid death if they\'re not dispelled or
resisted. It\'s more permissible to make these no-save effects, as the
PC does have a few more rounds to close out the fight before they get
worn down or use a relevant miracle of their own to cleanse the effect.

Weak monsters shouldn\'t usually have strong impairment powers, though
it\'s possible to have otherwise-feeble creatures who can still be
fearsomely dangerous if they\'re given a chance to fight. Some monsters
might have powers that work extremely well on ordinary mortals, but have
lesser effects on Godbound or other supernatural foes.

If you want to temper an impairment\'s power, limit the number of times
the creature can use it, or link its use to some special circumstance or
condition. If you want to amplify it, allow it to affect an entire
pantheon at once, or make it \"sticky\" in the form of a zone that
creates the impairment or an effect that repeats each round.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer242 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d10                     Weak Impairments                                                                                                                                             Medium Impairments                                                                                                                                                                  Strong Impairments
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    [Hinder divine power.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim must Commit one Effort for the scene in order to activate their non-Constant gifts or invoke miracles   [Block divine power.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim must Commit Effort for the scene every time they activate a non-Constant gift                                                   [Seal divine power.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim must Commit Effort for the scene each time they activate a non-Constant gift or miracle, and also takes a 1d10 damage die each time
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    [Slow movement.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim's movement speed is cut by half                                                                               [Pin.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim can't move under physical power. Optionally, it may instead block supernatural or abnormal movement modes. The victim can still act in place   [Scathe.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim always takes the maximum possible result on damage rolls
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    [Continuing Damage.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim takes 1d4 damage each round while the impairment lasts                                                    [Severe Continuing Damage.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} The impairment inflicts 1d8 damage each round                                                                                    [Lethal Continuing Damage.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim takes a 1d12 damage die at the start of each round
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    [Dull senses.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim takes -2 to all hit rolls for the duration of the scene                                                         [Blind.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim rolls all attacks twice and takes the worse hit roll. Their assailants roll twice and take the best                                          [Subvert.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim is controlled by assailant if they fail a relevant saving throw. Usually, a new save is allowed each round
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    [Targeting.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} The assailant gets +4 to hit the victim so long as they don't attack anyone else                                         [Exposure.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} The victim's armor class becomes 9 for the scene\'s duration                                                                                     [Fated Injury.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Attacks always hit the victim unless fended off with magic
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    [Defense Break.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim's armor class worsens by 2 points for the duration of the scene                                               [Stun.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim must make an appropriate saving throw to take any action on a round                                                                           [Incapacitate.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim can't take any action at all
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    [Misfortune.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim takes a -2 penalty on saving throws                                                                              [Curse.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim rolls saving throws twice and takes the worse result                                                                                         [Doom.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim is always treated as rolling a failure on saving throws unless they spend Effort to auto-succeed
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    [Dazing.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim always acts at the end of the round                                                                                  [Compulsion.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim takes 1d10 damage if they do anything except a particular action that round                                                             [Sap.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim takes a 1d20 damage die each round they take any action at all
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    [Enervation.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim takes 1d6 damage from exhaustion if they try to do anything vigorous                                             [Vulnerability.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim takes double damage from an attack type used by the assailant                                                                        [Barrier.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} The victim can't attack assailant
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   [Impair healing.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Victim cannot regain hit points for the duration of the scene                                                       [Susceptible.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Damage on the victim is rolled twice, and the larger result is taken                                                                          [Leech.]{.Bolded-Italic-Run-In} Hit points lost by the victim are gained by the assailant
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer243 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor174}Styling
Powers and Abilities

Here are some ways that Words of Creation can be used to flavor attacks,
defenses, or impairments. While the enemies the PCs face might not be
other Godbound, you can use this list as an inspiration for how entities
themed around a particular power might wield their abilities. The
mechanical details of their powers can be altered based on the needs of
the game and the particular power levels of the foes.

Remember that most foes won\'t last long enough to drag out an entire
array of different abilities. It\'s best to focus on a relative handful
that an enemy might reasonably get off in combat before being reduced to
mincemeat by angry demigods. Particularly powerful foes might be
expected to last long enough to unleash several of these abilities
before they\'re overcome... or before they send the heroes fleeing.

Most of these powers should probably require the creature to Commit
Effort to trigger them, but as such they should also do something more
interesting than a standard attack. If a major foe is hurling two 1d10
straight damage blasts at the pantheon with every attack action it
takes, you\'ll want to make sure that using one of its special gifts is
actually a worthwhile investment of its action and Effort for the round.

Such extra powers should be useful in ways that amount to something more
than \"It does more damage.\" Powers that just slather on more pain to a
single target tend to be uninteresting in a fight. Abilities that harm
multiple targets, create a hazard that demands PC attention, or somehow
force a tactical choice on the PCs are more engaging.

If you\'re making up a tactics table for the creature, take a moment to
note down the style details of a power in its tactics table entry. Even
just a few words can remind you of how the power is supposed to look,
and give you hints as to how it might be affected or dispelled by the
heroes.

[Alacrity:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Blindingly-fast strikes, Charges that hit
everyone in passing, Snatching projectiles from the air, Dodging
incoming blows, Tying up or snaring foes before they can react

[Artifice:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Eldritch guns or projectile weapons, Hurled
explosives, Mechanized armor, Automaton minions, Impairing rays or auras

[Beasts:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Swarms of attacking vermin, Transformation
into bestial war-shape, Impervious scales or shell, inhuman vitality,
Clouds of musk or debilitating venom

[Bow:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Bolt penetrating multiple foes, Hyper-accurate
archery, Shooting projectiles out of the air, Firing to make a melee
assailant pull back, Shooting important gear or making precise
debilitating shots

[Command:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commanding a foe to commit suicide, Ordering
a group to attack each other, Commanding an assailant to halt, Ordering
bystanders to be human shields, Commands that linger and force listeners
to resist them for several rounds

[Death:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Cause death to a living target, Drain the life
from a group, Fuel healing with vampiric force, Defy wounds that should
cause death, Compel the spirits of the dead to impair foes

[Deception:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Backstab a victim from surprise, Trick foes
into attacking each other, Hide behind illusions, Turn invisible,
Confuse and impair targets

[Earth:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Hurl stones, Kill groups with sudden stone
spikes or gnashing cracks, Exhibit obduracy of stone, Summon stone
barriers against foes, Trap or impair foes with clinging rock, toxic
earth vapors, or sudden mud

[Endurance:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Strike foes with unrelenting vigor, Leap
into a group to let their blows pass through you and into each other,
Contemptuously ignore hits, Fight on regardless of wounds, Exhaust
enemies with unnaturally relentless attacks

[Fertility:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Induce hideous cancers on a foe, Strangle a
group with sudden plant growth, Conjure plants to shield you, Spawn
minions to defend you, Snare or poison foes with obedient plants

[Fire:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Cause a foe to spontaneously combust, Hurl balls
of fire at groups, Melt incoming attacks, Drive foes back with a wall of
fire, Scorch, suffocate, and blind foes with heat and light

[Health:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Strike a person down with a sudden lethal
disease, Infect a group with a hideous plague, Instantly heal from a
wound, Regrow lost or damaged body parts, Infect with disease or siphon
health from a foe

[Journeying:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Bring a distant calamity to the foe, Force
a group into the way of some natural hazard, Be elsewhere and away from
a blow, Bring allies from afar to defend you, Make foes lost and
wandering even in familiar surrounds

[Knowledge:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Blast a victim's brain with unendurable
insight, Overload a group with incapacitating knowledge, Be aware of
where to stand to avoid an attack, Know how to block a strike, Impair a
victim's understanding of the situation

[Luck:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Kill someone with a ridiculously implausible
accident, Set a group accidentally murdering each other with their
blows, Luckily avoid an attack, Their foe fumbles the assault, Enemies
suffer impairment from bad luck

[Might:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Smash a foe with tremendous strength, Hurl
something big at a cluster of enemies, Leap vast distances to escape or
engage, Create barriers to enemies by toppling obstacles in their paths

[Night:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Dissolve a foe into darkness, Melt a group into
fading shadows, Cloak in defensive shadows, Disappear into the darkness,
Blind foes with primal night

[Passion:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Enslave an enemy with an overwhelming
sensation of love, Daze a group by sapping all desire from them, Force
bystanders to attack by infusing them with focused rage, Send enemies
scattering by appearing as an eidolon of unendurable terror

[Sea:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Blast a victim with high-pressure water, Drown a
group in clinging water, Deflect blows with watery shields, Flow like
liquid around an attack, Drag and impair foes with flowing currents

[Sky:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Smite a target with lightning, Tumble a group
with raging winds, Turn aside attacks with gusts of air, Fly out of the
range of attacks, Beat down foes with rain, hail, and storms

[Sorcery:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Blast a victim with an eldritch bolt, Conjure
a foe to assault a group, Invoke a defensive shield, Summon a
meat-shield minion, Curse victims with magical impairment

[Sun:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Ignite an enemy with solar light, Scatter a group
with a torrent of killing radiance, Dazzle an attacker and force them to
miss, Melt or drive back an attack, Blind and exhaust foes with terrible
light

[Sword:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Skewer a foe in melee, Leap into a group and
slaughter them all with a few sweeping strokes, Parry an attack,
Redirect a blow, Cut straps, slash tendons, or knock the breath out of
foes

[Time:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Bring a future death to a foe, Slaughter a group
with future wounds, Foretell an attack in time to dodge, Slow an attack
in time to evade it, Hinder foes by slowing time or foretelling their
actions

[Wealth:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Bury a target in heavy wealth, Hurl molten
gold or jagged diamond spikes, Bribe a group to kill each other, Pay
spirits to defend you, Create barrier of gold, Impair targets with
suddenly-failing material possessions
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer244 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor175}Managing
Combat

Running combat in [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} can be somewhat frenetic
compared to the usual pace of an old-school game. Monsters that would
usually take five or six rounds of steady hit point ablation are mowed
down in a round or two by the mighty blows of the heroes, and almost
every major foe the PCs face will have one or more Words or gifts that
can produce a wide range of supernatural effects. To help manage these
wild affrays, there are a few things you can do to ease your burden at
the table.

First, make a 3 x 5 card note for every major enemy the PCs are likely
to face. Put the creature\'s combat stats on one side of the card, and
scribble down its tactics table on the other side. You might also just
print off a foe\'s Bestiary page from the game PDF, first turning off
the art layer so as to make it printer-friendly. You want the
creature\'s statistics close to hand during combat.

Next, have a clear idea of the creature\'s favorite gifts or Word
miracles. When the tactics table says to fire off a gift or a miracle,
you should have something in mind. The opposite page offers some ideas
for flavoring combat powers or special magical tricks, but you can also
sift choices from the gifts listed in this book. You can make these
powers look like something appropriate to the enemy, and just use the
mechanical framework to describe its effects.

If the creature has certain powers that involve Committing Effort for a
constant effect, just assume that the powers are always in effect and
lower its maximum Effort accordingly. Unless it\'s a very important
fight, it\'s not worth letting NPC enemies selectively turn their
defensive or boosting gifts on and off to fuel their other abilities.

When a creature Commits Effort during a fight, just tick it off their
card and assume it\'s gone for the scene. In the case that the fight
breaks off and the creature has time to recover its strength, then you
can give it back some Effort, but for most monsters, all Committed
Effort is effectively gone for the day, because they won\'t be around
long enough to care about getting it back.

[Remember defensive and offensive dispelling.]{.CharOverride-3} Major
enemies risk getting mowed down in the first round or two as the PCs
hurl their strongest gifts or most damaging miracles at them if they
can\'t defensively dispel incoming effects. Remember that defensive
dispelling is an Instant action, so the enemy can use appropriate
miracles to block or negate incoming magic as long as its Effort holds
out.

Remember also that defense won\'t win against a pantheon of Godbound; a
half-dozen demigods have more Effort than a single major enemy does, and
can keep up their attacks longer than the enemy can keep up their
dispelling. It\'s crucial that the foe go on the offensive as quickly as
possible. The straight damage that many major entities roll can put down
PC Godbound in a hurry, especially if the creature has multiple attacks
or uses a gift to boost its offense. Many high-end fights are going to
end with one or more Godbound on the floor, and the survivors badly
mauled.

Lastly, don\'t hesitate to let the players know when it\'s time for them
to run. Due to the way damage works, it\'s very hard to one-shot a
Godbound hero, and even a very bad situation usually has a round or two
for the PCs to respond to their circumstances. If it\'s clear that
they\'re facing the pantheon\'s own personal Ragnarok, you should make
sure that the players see this as clearly as their PCs do. If it\'s
still early in the fight, the PCs should still have enough Effort left
to pull off any miracles they need to get free from their enemy\'s
tender attentions and run for safer ground.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer245 .Sidebar}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor176}Using
Creatures From Other Games

[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is designed to make it a simple matter to
import enemies from other old-school RPGs. With a few small tweaks, you
should be able to crack open any traditional old-school monster handbook
and scoop out creatures to throw at your brave heroes.

The big distinction to keep in mind is between individually worthy foes
and Mob fodder. Most creatures from normal monster handbooks will only
ever be mooks to Godbound. They might be dangerous in Mobs, but as
individuals or small groups, they won't be much more than speed bumps.
Be ready to crank up a monster's hit dice and actions per turn to make
it a worthy individual foe. In general, you can follow the steps below.

-   Creatures with fewer than 10 hit dice are apt to be treated as speed
    bumps by the pantheon if encountered solo. If you want to use such a
    creature as a meaningful solo opponent, perhaps as a unique
    Misbegotten horror, you\'ll want to multiply its hit dice by a
    factor of three or four.
-   For a creature's hit bonus, just use its hit dice, with a soft cap
    of +10 to hit. Very fearsome creatures should just automatically hit
    with their attacks, forcing targets to use gifts to deflect damage
    or miracles to negate attacks. Note that the hit bonus cap means
    that most of the major enemies the PCs face will be able to hit them
    around half the time or more.
-   Extremely low armor classes should be rare; anything below AC 0
    should be highly unusual. \"Normal\" humans and other foes
    shouldn\'t have armor classes below 5 as a general rule, unless
    they\'re explicitly heavily-armored creatures. Monstrous beasts and
    other dire terrors shouldn\'t have an AC below 0 unless their
    nigh-invulnerability is a specific trait to be emphasized.
-   Special abilities can usually be brought over verbatim, including
    any spellcasting powers the thing might have. Just use the spells as
    written in the original game, though you'll want to cap damaging
    effects at 10d6 or so unless the enemy is meant to be a truly
    tremendous foe.
-   Saving throws are usually 15+, minus 1 for every 2 full hit dice of
    the creature down to a minimum of 9+ for rank-and-file monstrous
    foes. Boss-type enemies can go lower still, but anything below 5+ is
    likely to be frustrating and make the use of save-dependent powers
    against the creature useless.
-   If the creature is meant to be a serious threat to a pantheon, it
    needs to have around one attack per round per PC. Thus, a creature
    with two actions per round and a three-attack hit sequence should be
    a challenge for a six-PC pantheon. These major enemies should roll
    their attack damage straight.
-   Major enemies usually have enough spell-like powers to keep them
    interesting, but don\'t hesitate to add Words or individual gifts as
    needed. It can also be worth the time to sketch up a quick tactics
    table for reference during play.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer246 .Single-Column}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor177}Treasures
Beyond Price

Wealth, Magic Items, and Divine Artifacts
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer247 .Text-Frame}
The wonders of a forgotten age lie waiting beneath the earth and hidden
within the palaces of the great. Marvels of occult power and ineffable
science await those souls brave enough to wrest them from their current
owners or unearth them from their long-abandoned vaults. Even the
peasants in the fields tell stories of marvelous golden plows that leave
abundance in their wake, or of a mighty heroine's sword that could speak
and counsel her in a hundred wise ways until its last terrible
treachery. Stories of magic and lost science pervade the tales of the
realms.

They are much less common in daily life. It has been a thousand years
since the Shattering and the collapse of the Former Empires, and most of
their baubles and treasures have been lost to hard use in the centuries
since. Few villages have even the smallest wonder in their possession,
and even in great cities and noble palaces a magical object is to be
treasured. Hawkers in the market sell charmed beads and magical elixirs
and scraps of parchment inked with auspicious signs, but few of them
have any real purpose but to line their maker\'s pockets. Items of true
power are rare in almost every land.

Even where these treasures can be found, they are not normally for open
sale. Kings and princes see no reason to permit their subjects to wield
the powers of the ancients when that might is better in royal hands, and
so most nations allow only the favored of its rulers to possess
significant artifacts... and it is the ruler who decides what is
significant. Even in less controlled lands, there are sufficient
thieves, swindlers, and avariciously grasping nobles to make the
ordinary sale of magical items impractical.

In the absence of easy markets in most realms, the best way to get an
item of power is the oldest way; the seeker goes out and finds it in an
ancient ruin. Surface structures have usually been picked clean over the
centuries, but those brave enough to pierce the depths or venture into
remote lands can sometimes find marvels there for the taking. More often
they find death between the jaws of nameless abominations, but such is
the price of avarice.

Other heroes acquire their equipage through favors to the great. A
magical artifact may be too valuable to sell, but not be too valuable to
trade for some mighty deed or desperate act that could save its owner
from catastrophe. Such rewards are done quietly, the better to make sure
that thieves and inquisitive monarchs do not look too closely at any of
the parties involved. Heroes who want to acquire a particularly rare
treasure might have to persuade its single known owner of the value of
their assistance.

The last alternative is impossible to ordinary artisans, and that is to
create the artifact yourself. Certain masterful theotechnicians and
arcane artificers are still able to create magical items, such as the
clockwork weaponry of Vissian maestros or the intelligent automatons of
the Guild of Artificers in Nezdohva. Even less gifted souls can brew
magical elixirs and petty charms, though the great majority of such
offerings are no more magical than the ditch-water that was used to make
them.

For true artifacts, however, only Godbound and other entities of primal
power are able to bind the magic. Only they have the Dominion necessary
to reshape the world and turn some length of sharp metal into a weapon
of legend, or fashion a scrap of silk into a banner that would draw a
nation behind it.

Such power never comes without a price. For the creator, that price is
in the expenditure of their own power and the use of precious celestial
shards salvaged from the broken engines of Heaven. These fragments of
calcified natural law provide the vital link between the artifact\'s
mundane shell and the empyrean power of the Words. An artificer must
often delve deep within the ruins of the world and the hidden vaults of
Heaven\'s fallen halls to accumulate enough shards to build some grand
enterprise.

For the mortal wielder of an artifact, this price comes in dissolution
and distortion. Mortal flesh was never meant to channel the celestial
power of the Words, and extended use of an artifact almost always has
some disastrous effect on its unfortunate mortal wielder. The lucky ones
merely suffer wasting afflictions as the power sears the strength from
their mortal frame. The less fortunate are changed by the artifact,
becoming little more than the broken debris or terribly-altered victims
of its supernal energies.

In this chapter the GM will learn of the more well-known magical
artifacts of the realm and how to scatter them prudently through their
own campaign. Rules are also provided for making your own artifacts,
either for the GM's use or as a special undertaking by a PC artificer.
In addition, a selection of tools for the creation of more mundane
wealth is provided for a GM in need of some rich cache of ancient
plunder.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer248 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor178}Treasures
and Wealth

While Godbound have less use for huge troves of wealth than ordinary men
and women, a healthy supply of gold can come in handy when dealing with
mortals. Even if a hero doesn\'t need the cash personally, their
followers and cult can make use of it, and a lavish application of
silver can smooth many awkward affairs. Getting this money is a more
difficult matter for those heroes not blessed with the Word of Wealth.

The table below gives examples of the kind of Wealth caches or free coin
to be found in the possession of certain persons or the troves of
certain ruins. When stocking a lair with Wealth or figuring out how much
money a Dulimbaian mandarin is willing to pay for a favor, you can
consult the table. This cash represents the subject\'s liquid available
funds. If pressed, they might be able to sell property or call in favors
sufficient to triple this amount, if not more, but most NPCs will do
this only in matters of life and death, and sometimes not even then if
they have heirs to consider.

If you\'re stocking a ruin, take the Wealth listed there as the total
loose treasure to be found around the place. It\'s probably not all
piled together in one central heap. You can put half of it in the
possession of the ruin\'s leader or strongest faction, while the other
half can be broken up into smaller packets around the place.

Artifacts and other magic items are not included in the table. Whenever
these are added, it should be a conscious choice of the GM, a decision
to place some fitting treasure in an ancient ruin or a rich lord\'s
vault. Details of such prizes are provided later in the chapter.

Currency in Arcem

Every settled nation in Arcem has its own currency, usually with silver
pennies or copper qian forming the base of the coinage. A silver penny
or ten copper qian are usually what a laborer earns in a day\'s work,
and it\'s barely enough to keep body and soul together without the
contributions of spouses and children. Paper currency is found only in
the Bright Republic, where the basic unit is whatever currency that is
being used in the nation where you\'re playing the game. Thus, if
playing in America, the currency and prices would be in dollars.

A single point of Wealth has no fixed equivalent in cash, but usually
represents enough money to support a dozen families for a year.

Estimating Wealth Point Prices

It\'s usually not important to know the exact price of a thing, but
sometimes the PCs will want to purchase some property or some great
service that is clearly worth more than one Wealth point. To get an idea
of a proper price for it, check the example cache size table on this
page and find a buyer who would have to seriously strain their wealth to
purchase something. Thus, if a fine country villa would stress the
finances of a rich merchant in a modest city, it should cost about 4
Wealth points.

Note that this does make large piles of Wealth non-linear in their
values; the richest men in ten villages certainly aren\'t going to
command the kind of wealth that a realm\'s God-King might throw around.
Unless the players start to intentionally abuse this fact, however, you
shouldn\'t worry about it too much. Since acquiring a given ruin\'s
plunder or doing a particular job usually eats up a session of play,
spending ten sessions grubbing up minor treasures will eat up a lot more
player effort and attention than executing one major coup.

Magically Created Wealth

Some Godbound heroes have gifts or Words that lend themselves to quickly
creating valuables. Godbound of Artifice can effortlessly create
valuable or useful objects, those of Fertility can conjure up acres of
rare herbs or drugs, and heroes of Wealth make the easy production of
gold a basic part of their portfolio. How should the GM handle the use
of these powers in play?

First of all, they should be [useful]{.CharOverride-2} powers. A player
who makes a Godbound of Wealth is telling you that they always want to
be able to afford things, and they\'re putting a major chunk of their
character resources into being able to do so. If they use their gifts,
they should just be able to afford Wealth 1 to 4 items and services
without strain.

Second, creating huge amounts of coins, gems, gold, or other precious
metal valuables risks inflating the local market painfully. A Godbound
of Wealth can usually buy any one extremely costly thing worth Wealth 5
or more before the inflation will hinder further large-scale uses of
their gold-conjuring powers for a month or so.

Third, conjuring objects of practical value is less traumatic to the
local economy. Conjuring food, or clothing, or pig iron, or other
objects of material use doesn\'t deform the local economy in the same
way. Deflation is a possibility, but most gaming groups aren\'t really
concerned with macroeconomic worries. Godbound of Wealth can often call
up these things too, but then it becomes an issue of finding a seller
willing to give them whatever fabulous prize the PCs want in exchange
for a massive herd of cattle or a dozen acres of cut timber.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer249 .Single-Column}
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Wealth                | Type of Cache or Owner                      |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [1]{.CharOverride-7}  | The wealth of the richest man in a well-off |
|                       | village                                     |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [2]{.CharOverride-7}  | The sum a village can muster in desperate   |
|                       | need                                        |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | The property of a well-to-do city merchant  |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | The loot of a lightly scavenged ruin of     |
|                       | former days                                 |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [3]{.CharOverride-7}  | A minor nobleman or rural lordling's        |
|                       | possessions                                 |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | Plunder of a minor supernatural menace      |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | A well-off bandit chieftain's accumulated   |
|                       | loot                                        |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [4]{.CharOverride-7}  | One of the richest merchants in a modest    |
|                       | city                                        |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | Treasure of a temple of long standing in an |
|                       | area                                        |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | Plunder of a minor but unlooted ruin of old |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [5]{.CharOverride-7}  | Wealth of a major government official       |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | Free coin of a prosperous noble of no great |
|                       | standing                                    |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | An important merchant in a major trading    |
|                       | city                                        |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [6]{.CharOverride-7}  | A great noble, but one without remarkable   |
|                       | wealth                                      |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | One of the chief merchants of a trading     |
|                       | city                                        |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [7]{.CharOverride-7}  | Plunder of a major unlooted ruin of old     |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | The wealth a trading city\'s rulers could   |
|                       | pull together                               |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | Wealth of a great temple of a major         |
|                       | regional religion                           |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [8]{.CharOverride-7}  | A major parasite god\'s accumulated         |
|                       | sacrifices                                  |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | A great noble from a notably wealthy        |
|                       | lineage                                     |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | A king of a modest nation                   |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [9]{.CharOverride-7}  | Plunder of a major ancient capital\'s ruin  |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | Loot from a rich shard of fallen Heaven     |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | A cache owned by a king of a major nation   |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| [10]{.CharOverride-7} | Emperor of a realm                          |
|                       |                                             |
|                       | Pontiff of a realm-spanning religion        |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer250 .Text-Frame}
Describing Treasures

Vast heaps of shining coins are all well and good, but it can get a
little tiresome for every great trove of ancient wealth to appear as
little metal discs. In some cases the nature of a treasure haul will be
obvious, but sometimes you want something a little unusual. The tables
on this page offer a GM some tools for spicing up a treasure haul, along
with suggestions for tweaking the contents into something a little
fresher than the traditional gems, gold, and jewelry.

You can use the origin table to the right to figure out where the
treasure originally came from. It might be something native to the ruin,
or it could be pelf dragged in by a more recent occupant who used the
ruin for a lair.

The physical dimensions of the cache give you an idea of how large and
bulky the haul might be. Heroes who are forced to just cherry-pick the
best bits of a vast pile of plunder might come away with only a quarter
of its true worth. Those who want the whole haul will have to figure out
some way of moving it from its location back to their base of
operations, and guarding it once it\'s there.

The defenses around the loot might be obvious from the location in which
it\'s kept, but you can use the table as inspiration when a particular
cache doesn\'t already have a keeper. The table below it gives some
ideas for NPCs who might want the loot or feel they have a legal right
to it. These souls might work with the PCs to steal it from its current
owner, or scheme to trick the heroes out of their reward.

Lastly, the table below gives a few general descriptors for the loot.
You can roll or pick one or two and then formulate a treasure that such
descriptors might describe. For example, a \"Vile Masterwork\" might be
a statue of something horrifying crafted by the Vissian master sculptor
Jacopo Barzetti, near-unsalable to all but the truly depraved.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer251 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d20                     Descriptor of the Treasure
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    [Ancient]{.CharOverride-3}. The loot dates back before the Last War.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    [Artwork]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s sculpture, painting, or other art.
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    [Clothing]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s a piece of clothing or vestments.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    [Coinage]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s largely in coins of precious metal.
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    [Consumable]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s something the user consumes.
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    [Cryptic]{.CharOverride-3}. The loot doesn\'t actually look valuable.
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    [Data]{.CharOverride-3}. The loot is actually information of value.
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    [Exotic]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s something not found at all around here.
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    [Famous]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s a locally-famous object of great worth.
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   [Forbidden]{.CharOverride-3}. The loot is illegal for some reason.
  [11]{.CharOverride-7}   [Jeweled]{.CharOverride-3}. Large or extremely rare jewels are involved.
  [12]{.CharOverride-7}   [Magic]{.CharOverride-3}. Some minor but valuable magic is involved.
  [13]{.CharOverride-7}   [Masterwork]{.CharOverride-3}. A famous artisan crafted it.
  [14]{.CharOverride-7}   [Owned]{.CharOverride-3}. Someone else around here has a claim on it.
  [15]{.CharOverride-7}   [Partial]{.CharOverride-3}. Its real value exists only with all other parts.
  [16]{.CharOverride-7}   [Regalia]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s important regalia to a local noble family.
  [17]{.CharOverride-7}   [Religious]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s important to a major local faith.
  [18]{.CharOverride-7}   [Toxic]{.CharOverride-3}. It harms its owner somehow if held long
  [19]{.CharOverride-7}   [Vile]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s horrible somehow, but only has value intact.
  [20]{.CharOverride-7}   [Wood]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s of a rare wood or exotic plant matter.
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer252 .Single-Column}
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  d6                     The Origin of the Treasure
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}   Hidden by an original occupant of the place
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}   Brought in by a later inhabitant
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}   Stolen from the surrounding locals
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}   Unearthed or crafted here on-site by inhabitants
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}   Payment for some service the owner rendered
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}   Tribute to the owner from minions or vassals
  ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer253 .Single-Column}
  ------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  d10                       The Bulk of the Treasure
  [1-3]{.CharOverride-7}    [Compact. ]{.CharOverride-3}The treasure consists of a single object or container that\'s easily carried by a person.
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}      [Bulky. ]{.CharOverride-3}The treasure is heavy or awkward. A person can carry it, but it\'ll take both hands.
  [5-6]{.CharOverride-7}    [Vast. ]{.CharOverride-3}The treasure is much too bulky or scattered for a person to carry it. A wagon or other transport must be used.
  [7-8]{.CharOverride-7}    [Attached. ]{.CharOverride-3}The treasure is an object that is physically attached to some part of the architecture, and something bad will happen if it\'s pried loose.
  [9-10]{.CharOverride-7}   [Fragile. ]{.CharOverride-3}A single person can carry the treasure, but if it\'s put down rapidly or the bearer is hit, it\'s likely to be smashed and made much less valuable.
  ------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer254 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------
  d10                     The Treasure\'s Defenses
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Sturdy, well-sealed container.
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    Hidden carefully in the owner\'s territory
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Guardian beast left to keep out thieves
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Magical ward that curses or detonates on thieves
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Behind a door or barrier only the owner can pass
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Intelligent guards that serve the owner
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Fake or bait treasure is left to trick thieves
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    Removing it triggers a mechanical trap
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    An alarm triggered by magic, mechanism, or guards
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   Abject terror of the owner dissuades the locals
  ----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer255 .Single-Column}
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  d10                     Who Wants the Treasure?
  [1]{.CharOverride-7}    Its former owner, a denizen of the ruin
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}    The local human whom it was stolen from
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}    Heirs to the victim of its theft
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}    Local temple, which it once belonged to
  [5]{.CharOverride-7}    Government official, taxman, or other exciseman
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}    Supernatural entity bound to the loot
  [7]{.CharOverride-7}    Local noble who owned or thinks he should own it
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}    A greedy local ruin denizen who knows of it
  [9]{.CharOverride-7}    The local ruin\'s boss, who wants it as tribute
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}   A desperate human thief who wants to steal it
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer256 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor179}Artifacts

Devices of wondrous magical power once littered the realms. Most of
these objects were relics of the ancient theurges and their subtle arts
of enchantment, their ateliers busy with the creation of magical swords,
blessed armors, devices for far speech, and baubles and trinkets that
conjured some wonder on command. The distant past was careless with
things that are marvels in these latter days. Most of these devices have
been broken or worn out over the centuries since the Last War, but a few
can still be found in the hands of the great or buried deep within some
forgotten ruin.

Modern sorcerers have more limited arts. Hedge wizards can brew elixirs
of subtle power, and determined theotechnicians can still create magical
prostheses and wondrously sharp blades, but these things require both
exquisite skill and extravagant expense to fashion, and so only the
richest and most powerful of the realms can afford them.

A few societies have still retained enough of their ancient arts to make
certain types of wonders more practical to create on a larger scale. The
Artificers Guild of Nezdohva still possess the secrets of animating
automatons and giving them consciousness and free will. The process is
costly enough to beggar a minor noble, but they can do things with
artificial sinew and flesh that are impossible elsewhere in Arcem. The
clockwork maestros of Vissio have similar arts, albeit ones focused on
the marriage of living flesh to mechanical augmentations. The grandees
of their city-states often have an artificial hand or eye or subtler
implant to demonstrate their wealth and influence. And of course, there
is the Bright Republic, which draws on its etheric energy nodes to power
an entire civilization of modern technology, a scant few items of which
can be hardened to function even off that blessed isle.

For the most part, however, magical items are things to be recovered
from the past rather than made in the present. Even those who possess
them must be cautious about offering them for sale in the open market;
local rulers have no reason to like the idea of some private citizen
holding an object of occult power. Assuming the ruler doesn\'t seize it
for their own use, they tend to permit such things only to nobles and
other favorites who can be trusted not to misuse them... or at least, to
misuse them only in customary ways. There are no \"magic shops\" in
Arcem or similar realms. Those who want a wonder must find a serviceable
crafter and deal privately with them, or make quiet arrangements with
someone who needs gold more than magic.

Yet beyond these ancient relics and modern baubles, there is a different
degree of power. [Artifacts]{.CharOverride-3} are not the product of
modern magical techniques, or even the debased theurgy practiced in the
present day. They are works of divine power, each one authored by a Made
God or an ancient arch-theurge, and they offer fantastic power to their
wielders. Only creatures possessing an innate bond with the Words of
Creation can fashion artifacts, and their use by lesser entities can
have terrible consequences for those who handle these tools of the gods.

The Nature of Artifacts

Artifacts are a form of prosthetic divinity, one allowing the wielder to
employ the power of a divine gift whether or not they have actually
mastered the gift, or even bound the Word it draws on. Made Gods first
fashioned these tools to widen the scope of their power, while later
parasite gods and Godbound have used them to store extra celestial
energy to fuel their abilities. The powers of an artifact come in
several forms, and many have more than one special ability. Most
artifact powers are broken down into two basic forms.

-   The artifact grants access to a gift that the wielder may use as if
    they have mastered it, allowing them to Commit Effort from the item
    or automatically gain the steady benefit of a Constant gift.
-   The artifact provides a pool of Effort that can be used to fuel the
    gifts it contains. This Effort can\'t be used for other purposes,
    such as powering the wielder\'s own gifts, even if they\'re the
    same.

While tremendously useful to a divinity, wielding an artifact is not
without cost. The user must exert some of their energies to harmonize
with the artifact and integrate its powers into their own divine
essence. The first time the wielder handles the artifact in any 24-hour
period, they need to Commit Effort for the day to use it. If they
decline to do so, the artifact is useless to them, and they cannot use
any of its abilities or benefits, nor can they try to bond again for 24
hours.

Mortals who attempt to bond with an artifact can expect to suffer severe
side-effects from the process, assuming they\'re even capable of
Committing the Effort. Their fragile forms were not meant to channel the
tremendous power of divinity, and consistent use of an artifact\'s power
will almost always result in the progressive transformation,
derangement, or debilitation of the user in some way reflective of the
artifact\'s power. Some artifacts are designed to be wielded by human
champions of a deity, and so their side-effects are limited, but even in
those cases, most gods prefer their holiest relics be used only rarely
and at great need.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor180}Creating
Artifacts

When a Godbound hero wants to create an artifact, the first thing they
need is a justification. They must have a Word or a Fact related to the
artifact they intend to create, and its powers must reflect their
abilities. Godbound of Artifice are particularly talented with artifact
creation, however, and are treated as having justification for almost
any artifact, though they can\'t create ones that allow free miracle
access to other Words.

Creating an artifact costs Dominion. The various options listed on the
adjacent table describe those costs. At least half the cost of an
artifact must be paid by its creator, though allies can help with the
rest if they have some justification for it with their own powers.

The first step in the process requires the crafter to pick one or more
gifts to be contained in the artifact. These gifts can be any
appropriate to their Words, and need not be ones they\'ve mastered.
Constant gifts and gifts that require no Effort to use are more costly
to add than those powers that require Effort to trigger, as the latter
are limited by the artifact\'s available Effort, while Constant gifts in
an artifact are as useful as if they were possessed by the wielder
personally.

Next, the crafter decides how many points of Effort the artifact is to
store. The wielder of the artifact can use this Effort to fuel the gifts
it contains. All Effort the artifact commits is for the day, and the
gifts it triggers don\'t last longer than a scene. Artifacts regain
committed Effort at dawn each day. An artifact can contain no more
Effort than half the creator\'s level, rounded up. Barring some rare
power, an artifact\'s wielder cannot use their own Effort to fuel its
gifts.

Next, the crafter decides if the artifact is to confer any special
abilities. If it gives the bearer the benefits of bonding with a Word,
like the bottomless purse of the Wealth Word or the unlimited ammo of
the Bow Word, it adds to the item\'s cost. Such abilities do not
normally require Effort to trigger, granting their benefits to anyone
who bonds with the artifact.

If it allows someone to dispel hostile magic as if with a miracle of one
of the creator\'s Words, that also costs more. The most potent
artifacts, the ones that can replicate any miracle of a particular Word,
cost more still. In both cases, Effort must be expended from the
artifact. As usual, offensive dispelling takes up the wielder\'s action,
while defensively negating a power used against the bearer is an Instant
response.

Once the total Dominion necessary to craft the artifact is determined,
the creator needs to assemble the raw materials. A suitable physical
shell for the artifact must be fabricated or found, but this is usually
a relatively simple matter. More difficult is the acquisition of the
necessary number of celestial engine shards to connect the new artifact
to the primal power of the Words. Every artifact requires at least one
celestial shard, plus one more for every six full points of Dominion it
took to build it. These shards are destroyed in the creation process.

A single artifact can contain only so many gifts and special abilities.
The artifact can contain as many gifts as the creator\'s level.
Conjuring any miracle of a Word counts as five gifts, a Word\'s special
abilities count as two, and greater gifts or dispelling powers count as
three. Effort is capped at half the creator\'s level, rounded up.

Artifacts use their gifts at an effective level equal to their
creator\'s level or their wielder\'s level, whichever is greater. If the
wielder is an NPC with hit dice instead of levels, use a third of their
maximum hit dice as their level, up to a maximum of 10. Such details are
likely to be irrelevant unless the artifact uses a gift that has an
effect that hinges on the wielder\'s level, such as [Divine
Wrath]{.CharOverride-3}.

Forging an artifact requires one month of effort in some surrounding
suitable to the undertaking. Temple-citadels are a popular choice, but
any location that echoes the creator\'s bound Words will serve for the
imbuing of the artifact. If the process is interrupted, it must be
started over, but the Dominion is not spent until the artifact is
completed. Once fabricated, a creator forever after retains a subtle
bond with the artifact, and can get an impression of its distance and
general location at all times. Only an artifact\'s creator can easily
destroy it; others who wish to break the object must often go to heroic
lengths to find some celestial engine or long-lost ritual to unbind its
mighty elements.

Using Artifacts In a Campaign

Artifacts should be rare plunder for a pantheon. A ruin probably has no
more than one of them, if any at all, and the majority should be found
in far, dangerous places such as abandoned shards of Heaven or the
flaming circles of Hell. Heroes should most often have to intentionally
seek out an artifact to obtain it, rather than stumble across it in some
random chest, and whoever owns the artifact will almost certainly use it
in their own defense.

Starting Play with Artifacts

At the GM\'s discretion, a PC can start play with an artifact. One of
their Facts has to be exclusively about how they acquired this mighty
relic, and that Fact can\'t be used to benefit rolls---the PC trades the
benefits of it in exchange for starting with the artifact. Such a relic
probably shouldn\'t be worth more than eight Dominion points and must
meet with the GM\'s approval. If the artifact is particularly important
to the PC\'s concept, the GM might allow them to later spend Dominion to
improve it, though such expenditures should cost about twice as much as
creating an entirely separate artifact.

Examples of Divine Artifice

The following pages include examples of seven mighty artifacts created
in the days before the Shattering. All of them are currently lost
somewhere in the trackless depths of the realms, and sufficiently
determined heroes might be able to salvage them from whatever fell hands
currently wield them.

Each entry provides a description of the artifact\'s history, its
available effort, the amount of Dominion it cost to create it, and an
explanation of its innate gifts. As with many artifacts, the powers they
grant are unique. A determined Godbound might be able to duplicate these
gifts with their own abilities if they have a serviceable Word and are
willing to pay the price to master them.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer257 .Sidebar}
Artifacts Don\'t Have Pluses

Artifact weapons and armor do not normally grant bonuses to hit rolls,
damage, or armor class. While they may have a supernaturally-sharp edge
or adamant plating or some other dramatic physical quality, their power
is simply too great to be expressed in a slight bonus to hitting things.
Either the artifact\'s power is not being used, in which case its
benefits are too minor to be meaningful to Godbound, or else it is being
used, in which case the gift it\'s expressing is probably doing
something dramatic.

A peasant hero who picks up the Red Sword of the Bleeding Emperor
doesn\'t gain a +5 bonus to his hit and damage rolls. He either has an
unearthly weapon of bone and coagulated gore which is extremely
disturbing to use in a fight, or he bonds with it by Committing Effort
and triggers the [Emperor\'s Red Hand ]{.CharOverride-3}gift to hack
every human standing within thirty paces into a crimson vortex of
liquefied meat. Holding a tool of the gods in his trembling hands does
not change his situation in small, marginal ways, it produces [dramatic
consequences]{.CharOverride-2}.

It\'s theoretically possible to give an artifact some Constant gift that
grants a blanket bonus to hit rolls or armor class, but such \"buff
gifts\" tend to be both extremely bland and extremely desirable,
changing nothing about how a Godbound fights but marginally improving
whatever it was they were going to do in the first place. Unless you
want your PCs to be strongly tempted by such generic benefits, it\'s
inadvisable to allow such artifacts.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer258 .Single-Column}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
  Cost                                                                                                                                   Artifact Powers
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                                                                   For each lesser gift
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                                                                   For a lesser gift that is Constant or requires no Effort
  [4]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                                                                   For each greater gift
  [8]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                                                                   For a greater gift that is Constant or requires no Effort
  [3]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                                                                   Gives the special abilities of a bond to a specific Word
  [6]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                                                                   Allows dispelling effects as if with a specific Word
  [10]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                                                                  Allows any miracle permitted to a specific Word
  [2]{.CharOverride-7}                                                                                                                   For each point of Effort contained by the artifact
  Other abilities for an artifact are possible with GM permission, and the table above can be used as a guide for appropriate pricing.   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer259 .Text-Frame}
The City-Seed

A peaceful Made God of a long-lost people fashioned the City-Seed as a
shelter for their nomadic people. In a vain attempt to avoid the
hostility of the more martial Made Gods, they sought to take their
people wandering through the realms, seeking a refuge from the strife of
their domineering brethren. The City-Seed would be a tool for survival
if they were ever forced to scatter.

In time, the creator was destroyed by more violent Made Gods and their
people were dispersed as it had feared. One wandering band was forced to
flee by difficult ways through the Night Roads, with only the City-Seed
to help build them defenses from the denizens of Uncreated Night. In
time, these too died, and the City-Seed was left in some forgotten
stretch of Night Road or in some silent tomb-realm.

More modern users are apt to find it a pragmatic source of instant
fortresses and fortifications, or the building of free urban
infrastructure in a matter of weeks or months. The mental corruption
caused by its use is subtle, and the day or two it takes to raise a
strong fortress may not be enough time to show its effects, particularly
if a different user is employed for each construction. Once the
City-Seed\'s obsession latches on to a user, however, their edifices are
apt to become murderous deathtraps for anyone who would prevent them
from delving deeper into the earth with the under-passages of the seed
and spreading its stony branches wider over the surface.

Powers of the Seed

  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-3}   4   [Creation Cost:]{.CharOverride-3}   18 Dominion
  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------

[Birth of the Metropolis (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} When the
city-seed is planted in a location, buildings and infrastructure of the
user\'s choosing gradually grow up around it, forming out of the bedrock
of the surrounding area. One day\'s growth provides housing, commercial
space, defensive walls, sewer, water, and paved roads for up to five
hundred residents, conjuring up deep springs of fresh water where
needed. The seed can create military fortifications if desired, and the
character and particulars of the architecture is at the user\'s
discretion. For every day the seed remains planted in an area,
facilities form for an additional five hundred residents. Any faction
attempting to make a Feature of what the city-seed creates may treat the
attempt as a Plausible effort.

[Heart of the City (Lesser Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} With an action and
Committing Effort for the day from the artifact, the possessor of the
City-Seed can perceive clearly any specific location built by the seed,
and speak so as to be heard there. Optionally, they may speak so as to
be heard by everyone in such a community. The perception and speech
lasts until the wielder spends their action doing something else.

Every day in which a mortal uses the City-Seed compels them to make a
Spirit saving throw. After three unsuccessful saves, they become
obsessed with building the city wider and deeper, and will act to kill
any who try to prevent them from expanding the work.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer260 .Text-Frame}
Etheric Energy Node

The ancient etheric energy nodes are the heart of the Bright Republic\'s
culture and technology. Without the stabilizing effect on natural law
that they provide, the tiny perturbations caused by the decaying
celestial engines would render the Republic\'s technological base
useless, and in a stroke turn them from the strongest nation of the
northwest into an island of desperate rioters.

Unfortunately, these artifacts are decaying. Centuries of hard use with
only the limited theotechnical knowledge of the latter-day maintainers
has created a cascade of failures that are only growing worse. No node
has actually failed yet, but they are consuming an enormous amount of
spare parts in order to keep them functional, and the strain of it is
beginning to impact the Bright Republic\'s economy. If the influx of raw
materials from Patria, Dulimbai, and Vissio were to end, disaster would
be visibly impending.

A Godbound of Artifice could theoretically repair these artifacts. Some
of them are only somewhat worn, so the application of the correct gifts
could restore the damaged works. The largest and most important of them,
however, the half-dozen which serve the greatest fraction of the
population, will require celestial shards to fix. Worse, they may have
to be taken off line for a time in order to complete the repairs, and
any interruption of the power would have catastrophic consequences on
Bright Republic cities.

Neither the public nor the Bright Republic government is ready to admit
that there\'s a real problem with the nodes. Talk of the
increasingly-common power flickers is dismissed, but zoning actions are
being taken to forcibly rearrange populations around the
best-functioning nodes without explaining the true reason behind the
moves.

Powers of the Node

  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-3}   2   [Creation Cost:]{.CharOverride-3}   14 Dominion
  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------

[Rectification of Names (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The node
stabilizes natural law within a 30-mile radius and broadcasts subtle
waves of etheric power, allowing the operation and powering of advanced
mundane technology such as that created in the Bright Republic. Any
attempt to create a change related to using or building that technology
within the node\'s area of effect is treated as a Plausible change.
Larger models of the energy node duplicate this gift several times; each
additional [Rectification of Names]{.CharOverride-3} gift imbued into
the artifact doubles the radius affected by it.

[Focused Flow Control (Lesser Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} With an action and
Committing Effort for the day from the artifact, the controller can
selectively depower devices in areas powered by the node. Individual
devices can be shut down, or all devices of a type. Magical tech items
hardened so as to function away from a node are not affected by this.

The etheric energy nodes of the Bright Republic are the size of large
industrial buildings, and are unusual in that they\'re perfectly safe
for mortals to operate as long as they don\'t attempt to use the
[Focused Flow Control]{.CharOverride-3} power. Slow, careful
reallocation of the node\'s energy can be done over the course of a day
or two to eliminate power in areas influenced by the node, but a bound
mortal wielder of the node who attempts an immediate shutdown with
[Focused Flow Control ]{.CharOverride-3}must save versus Hardiness at a
-2 penalty or be killed by the sudden flux of etheric energy.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer261 .Text-Frame}
Flute of the Joyous Tyrant of Bright Feathers

The Joyous Tyrant, the Lady of Bright Song, was the Made God of a
forgotten feathered people. By her will her devotees flocked as one and
overwhelmed her many enemies with their bodies and their fervor. The
sacrifice of multitudes meant nothing to the Joyous Tyrant, who was
wholly absorbed in the glorious unity of will she inspired and the
beauty of a song sung with the throats of a nation. While the feathered
people were eventually exterminated by their enemies, the Joyous Tyrant
is said to still persist in a shard of Heaven composed entirely of
crystallized song.

The flute itself is a thing fashioned of gleaming, closely-set feathers
of innumerable bright colors. The slightest current of air around it
coaxes a subtle melody from the instrument, one that somehow complements
the mood of its bearer even as it makes stealth somewhat difficult when
it is not carefully wrapped. It was originally intended to be borne by
the Second of the Flock, the Joyous Tyrant\'s beloved mate and hierarch,
but it was lost in the general downfall of the feathered people.

Powers of the Flute

  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-3}   3   [Creation Cost:]{.CharOverride-3}   12 Dominion
  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------

[Mistress of Sweet Song (Lesser Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} As an action,
Commit Effort from the artifact and play the flute to summon all small
birds within fifty miles, absolutely command all small birds within
sight, or communicate with avian life. Sky-darkening masses of small
birds are largely ineffective weapons, but if used to harm exposed
targets they\'ll inflict 1 point of damage to all within sight after
five minutes of pecking, or 15 points against Mobs, before being
exhausted or killed. Victims able to get under sturdy cover can avoid
this damage.

[Plucking Carrion (Lesser Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} A violent trill of the
flute performed as an action summons spirit-crows to pluck and tear at a
visible enemy\'s exposed wounds. The victim must already have suffered
at least one point of damage, but if so, they suffer an automatic 1d10+1
damage die from the phantom crows. A portion of the user\'s spirit is
used to beckon the crows, however, and so they suffer 1 point of damage
to use this power.

Extensive use of the flute by a mortal gradually dissolves their sense
of individuality, leaving them docile and obedient to the will of
whomever they originally considered their superiors. This dissolution is
accompanied by a feeling of great joy and serenity, until nothing could
be more delightful than doing as their superior directs.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer262 .Text-Frame}
The God-King\'s Resplendent Barge

The theurge known as the God-King Zereus used this vast flying barge as
a floating palace for his empire, skimming from city to city to ensure
that his priest-officials were obeying his august will. The origins of
the barge itself are lost in ancient history, but it\'s supposed to have
been the handiwork of some solar Made God, likely an early casualty of
the Last War. Zereus himself was certainly incapable of making such a
marvel, though he was a powerful theurge in his day.

The barge is a vast, flat-bottomed vehicle of shining bronze metal,
perhaps seven hundred feet long and three hundred feet wide. A
multi-leveled structure at the back of the barge provides housing for
the occupants and the heavily-guarded control room where a mortal pilot
sits on the golden throne that commands the barge. While the God-King
himself could have easily helmed the ship, his business below had him
delegating the work to his most trusted minion, a trust encouraged by
the will-sapping effect of the barge\'s controls.

While a swift mode of transportation, the barge is also capable of being
used as a weapon of war. Zereus used it to put down several rebellions,
either with its flaming weaponry or with projectiles hurled from over
the barge\'s rail. The barge is obliged to show some caution, however,
as it can\'t climb higher than 3,000 feet above sea level, and so is
susceptible to attacks that can hit objects within visual range. This
maximum operational ceiling also obliges it to steer around the very
highest mountain ranges.

The current whereabouts of the Resplendent Barge are unknown, though
stories persist of a hidden shard of Heaven with a Night Road wide
enough to admit the barge back into the realms, if only its ancient
defenders can be defeated.

Powers of the Barge

  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-3}   5   [Creation Cost:]{.CharOverride-3}   24 Dominion
  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------

[Adamant Keel (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} If attacked directly, the
barge has an effective armor class of 3, 30 hit dice, and is impervious
to non-magical weapon attacks. Attempts to control it with the Word of
Artifice can be resisted automatically by Committing Effort for the day
from the pilot or the barge itself.

[A Chariot of the God-King (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The barge is
capable of carrying a thousand passengers in relative comfort and can
fly at a speed of twenty miles an hour, ignoring all but
magically-empowered ill weather. A passenger may be replaced by up to
five hundred pounds of cargo.

[Ever-Renewed Hull (Lesser Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The pilot of the
barge may Commit Effort for the day from the artifact to repair 10 hit
dice of damage as their action for the round.

[Rebuke Those Below (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} As an action, the
commander may Commit Effort for the day from the artifact to launch a
spray of solar flames at an area below up to 100 feet in diameter.
Everything not under non-flammable cover suffers 5d6 fire damage.

The divinity who built the barge preferred docile pilots. A mortal who
binds this artifact is unable to resist mind-controlling effects induced
by anyone aboard the barge.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer263 .Text-Frame}
The Impervious Panoply of Lady Yelem

The Made God Yelem embodied the idealized protector of her people; a
glorious mother-conqueror, sternly chastising the reckless barbarian
nations before mercifully forgiving their errors and permitting them to
obey her enlightened directions.

In time, the theology of Yelem came to emphasize her protection of her
people as a whole rather than its individual members, and the Lady sent
forth vast human tides to crush her foes for the \"health of the
people\". The individual human casualties were tremendous, and the
people began to revere Yelem\'s sacred offspring as protectors of their
individual lives. These Thousand Daughters of Yelem were only partially
human as people recognized the term, but they took an interest in
individual temples and towns, and their personal devotees could pray to
them for succor.

In the end, this sacred division spelled the end for Lady Yelem. Her
daughters revolted against their god-mother, and when they came to
destroy her, she had not a single mortal worshiper left to sacrifice
themselves for her. Her mighty panoply was unable to defend her from the
attacks of her offspring, and she was destroyed. Of course, the Thousand
Daughters fell to fighting shortly afterwards and their realm was lost
to Uncreated Night, but it is possible that the armor remains
undiscovered in some tomb-realm or shard of fallen Heaven.

The armor itself is heavy regalia armor, fancifully worked and seemingly
wholly impractical for the wearer. So long as the bearer has a
sufficient supply of zealots in their company, however, it can be
impossible to actually hurt them.

Powers of the Panoply

  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-3}   4   [Creation Cost:]{.CharOverride-3}   22 Dominion
  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------

[A Stainless Hauberk (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} As an Instant
action, any hit point damage suffered by the wearer can be transferred
to a willing ally within one hundred feet. The ally dies on the spot,
but the wearer is unharmed.

[Impervious Splendor (Lesser Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The panoply is
treated as heavy regalia armor for the wearer, granting AC 3 but without
any saving throw penalties. The armor automatically resists any attempts
to change its appearance, expending Effort to dispel the effect until it
is removed.

[Never A Drop of Red (Lesser Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The wearer never
appears to be injured, wearied, besmirched, or otherwise discomfited
regardless of their current health or surroundings. As an Instant
action, the wearer may Commit Effort for the day from the artifact or
their own reserve to completely negate one physically damaging attack or
effect. Powers that do damage via mental effects or non-physical
injuries cannot be repulsed by this power.

Mortals who wear this armor become progressively more convinced of their
own invincibility, while ordinary men and women around them become
equally certain that they cannot be harmed. Eventually, the wearer dares
the most outrageous acts in their overconfidence, while normal mortals
around them cower back without even trying to resist their impositions.
Only a heroic mortal of 7 or more hit dice or a supernatural entity can
resist this hopelessness.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer264 .Text-Frame}
The Red Sword of the Bleeding Emperor

A people who cherished the concept of self-sacrifice raised up the
Bleeding Emperor for their Made God. This naked titan-god was
perpetually scarred and bleeding, his holy blood the sacrament of
numerous cult rites. The Red Sword was forged as a tool to enlist the
fractious barbarians into the pious work of self-sacrifice that the
Emperor embodied. They, too, would be taught to give up their lives to
the greater cause, to shed their limited lives to an unlimited end.

This relentless self-sacrifice was subverted by the Tikkat Entity, a
hive-mind culture of humans who had abandoned their individuality in
favor of a symbiotic relationship with colonies of beetle-like insects.
Tikkat parasite-warriors infected enough of the Bleeding Emperor\'s
followers to corrupt his theology, and legends suggest that the Bleeding
Emperor himself was eventually captured and parasitized by the Entity.
This outcome is debatable, but far voyagers of the realms have
encountered living Tikkat, and the survivors report the presence of
Bleeder cultists among the symbiotic warriors.

The sword was lost during the conflict and has since shown up in more
than one realm. Its bearers rarely keep it for long, as the consequences
of its use are not conducive to long life. Mortal wielders soon become
distracted by the pleasures of their suffering, and become willing tools
of whatever cause or master can promise them more extravagant
opportunities for pain.

Powers of the Sword

  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-3}   5   [Creation Cost:]{.CharOverride-3}   22 Dominion
  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------

[Red Hand of the Emperor (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} As an action,
the wielder can Commit Effort from the artifact to launch a single
attack with the sword against every creature within sight, doing a
minimum of 1 point of damage even on a miss. Mobs are automatically hit
for 1d10+15 damage rolled straight.

[Font of Invigorating Gore (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} For every
quarter of their maximum hit points received in damage by the wielder,
either they or the Red Sword regain one point of Effort they\'d
committed for the day, choosing which is to be refreshed at their
discretion.

Mortals who wield the Red Sword come to feel a certain ecstasy at bodily
suffering, eventually becoming unable to determine the actual extent of
their own wounds without pausing to examine them. This delight leaves
them careless with their corporeal form. They start every day 1d6 hit
dice down from their maximum, to a minimum of one hit die.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer265 .Text-Frame}
The Seal of Ten Thousand Suns

The origins of this heavy black ring are lost to history, but the
glimmer of lights within the band mark it out as an obviously magical
artifact. One who dons the ring instantly becomes aware of its powers,
though mortals also usually find themselves assailed by the whispered
words of the Uncreated and their incessant promises.

For centuries, it\'s dipped in and out of the chronicles of many realms,
always an unexpected find by some common adventurer or inquisitive
sorcerer, always the herald of some grim consequence. Some records have
been found in drifting tomb-realms that were completely overwhelmed by
the Uncreated let in by the Seal, a tattered collection of despairing
histories that speak of the corruption of the Seal\'s bearer and the
doom that followed in its wake.

Other times, the Seal has been sought as a tool of regal aggrandizement.
Realm-ruling emperors have dreamed of further shores of conquest, and
the Seal has offered them the chance to forge new roads to untouched
worlds. A few of these god-rulers had sufficient will to ignore the
blandishments of the Uncreated, but even they inevitably opened one
Night Road too many, and the destruction poured in on their people from
some far-distant nightmare world.

Most disquietingly, there are some sorcerers who seek the Seal not for
its power of opening a Night Road, but for the bargains they mean to
make with the Uncreated. They are perfectly willing to sacrifice a realm
or two to the malevolence of these abominations if it means they will
receive the rewards that only the Uncreated Night can grant.

Powers of the Seal

  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-3}   3   [Creation Cost:]{.CharOverride-3}   12 Dominion
  ---------------------------- --- ----------------------------------- -------------

[Bearer of the Black Key (Lesser Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user may
Commit Effort for the day from the artifact to open or close a Night
Road\'s seal as if using the appropriate theurgic invocations.

[Wound the World (Greater Gift):]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user may Commit
three points of Effort for the day from the artifact to instantly create
a Night Road opening where they stand, even in the heart of a populous
human community. The road leads to a realm or Heavenly shard known to
them or studied in the appropriate ancient records. The road does not
manifest with any seal in place, and the destination may well be invaded
by unfriendly entities. The Seal can create, unlock, and seal Night Road
breaches, but it cannot completely destroy them.

A mortal incautious enough to use the seal becomes the focus of
tremendous interest from the Uncreated. The wretched victim is barraged
with suggestions and visions from deep within Uncreated Night, ones that
offer all manner of delights in exchange for opening a Night Road to a
realm infested with the Uncreated. All but the strongest mortals will
inevitably succumb to the psychic pressure unless they discard the seal
somewhere beyond their own reach.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer266 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor181}Items
of Lesser Magic

Mighty artifacts are hardly the only magical items to be found in the
realms. Most of these lesser enchantments, however, are too weak to be
of use to Godbound. The innate divine energies of such heroes commonly
drown out the lesser enchantments of mortal arcanists, and the tools
that might be so useful to a mortal hero are so much inert steel and
common wood to the Godbound. Still, heroes might find use in giving such
tools to their cultists and allies, or might face them in hostile hands
on the battlefield.

Minor Magical Items in Godbound

GMs who want to introduce minor magical items into their campaigns can
easily plunder the thousands of pages of old-school magical items that
are available in existing OSR products or the original games from which
they were drawn. Everything from the ubiquitous [sword
+1]{.CharOverride-2} to the trusty [potion of healing]{.CharOverride-2}
to mighty staves and +5 magical armors can be pulled directly from these
games and inserted into [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}. As many of these
OSR games are free for download, it would be rather profligate with page
count to reprint them here. A selection of uniquely Arcemite minor
magical items are given on the opposite page, but for the most part you
can pull your minor magics from the existing corpus of the hobby.

Godbound and Minor Magic

\"Minor magic items\" include everything that isn\'t an artifact. Some
minor items function normally for Godbound, and all of the example items
on the opposite page can be used freely by Godbound heroes. Certain
effects almost always fail for these mighty beings, however.

-   Magical \"pluses\" from magical weapons, armors, and shields never
    work for Godbound. A [sword +3]{.CharOverride-2} might be a magical
    weapon in the hands of a Godbound, but it doesn\'t grant its usual
    +3 to hit and damage rolls in their hands.
-   Healing potions and other healing items do not normally work on
    Godbound. Their vital force is too strong to be replenished by such
    minor magics.
-   Magic that grants bonuses to hit rolls, damage rolls, or other
    Godbound die rolls doesn\'t work. A magical blessing might boost the
    hit rolls of mortals, but Godbound are too powerful to be augmented
    by these enchantments.
-   Items that give extra actions don\'t function for Godbound. Very
    powerful artifacts might allow extra actions at a high cost or
    specific circumstance, much as the gifts of Alacrity allow, but
    ordinary magical items can\'t hasten a Godbound user.

These limits also usually apply to similar mighty supernatural entities,
such as parasite gods, angels, greater Eldritch, and other creatures
that are capable of bonding a Word. Less imposing foes such as ordinary
mortals and minor supernatural enemies can use these items normally, and
might benefit from being given them by a patron or master. Perhaps more
consequentially, they also work just fine in the hands of mortal foes of
the PCs, and can make common mortal opponents into much more dangerous
enemies.

Converting Magic Items

Most magic items from other OSR games can be pulled in verbatim from
their source game without much in the way of conversion. Still, there
are a few adjustments you should make when importing certain types of
magic.

-   Items that inflict multiple dice of damage shouldn\'t do more than
    10 dice at a time and should probably have charges. If you don\'t
    want them being used to spam down major enemies, make their effects
    useless against powerful supernatural foes, and remember that major
    enemies can always use an appropriate Word\'s Instant defensive
    miracles to stifle mortal magics used against them.
-   Healing items shouldn\'t normally work on Godbound unless they\'re
    produced by artifacts. For mortals, weak healing items should roll
    their healing dice as if they were damage dice, and heal that many
    hit points or hit dice of damage in the user. Strong healing items
    should be rolled \"straight\" to heal that many points of damage. In
    both cases, it should usually be necessary for the recipient to
    Commit Effort for the day to benefit from the healing, in order to
    put a hard cap on how much healing anyone can soak up in a day.
-   Items that replicate a gift or give a constant useful benefit
    shouldn\'t normally be usable by Godbound, as it ends up tempting
    players to start Christmas-treeing their PCs with as many such magic
    items as possible. A cloak that allows you to fly is a good deal
    cheaper than permanently investing your limited gift points in a
    gift that grants flight.

In general, minor magic items you introduce into your campaign should
usually be loot the PCs can use to bribe or enlist mortals, charged or
single-use items that give the PCs a limited resource to expend when
needed, or minor enchantments with niche non-combat uses. The main
magical treasures the PCs should be interested in should be artifacts,
and they ought to be rare enough that acquiring one is a major effort
rather than the casual byproduct of ruin pillaging.

A gauntlet that sprays a bolt of flame might gutter out on the hand of a
divine wielder, but its torrent of fire can scorch the demigod quite
handily when activated by a cultist of a rival deity. Minor magic items
can amplify the threat of an otherwise marginal group of mortal
assailants.

Buying and Selling Magic Items

Whether or not your realm has anything like a \"magic shop\" is up to
you as the GM. Some realms certainly ought to have such establishments,
while other groups prefer to keep even minor magic items in short supply
in their game. Prices for magic items usually start at 1 Wealth point
and go up steeply from there for permanent items or powerful works of
magic.

Those worlds without such shops, such as Arcem, leave aspiring buyers in
need of finding a local sorcerer able to make such a work and paying
them extravagantly for the crafting. That accomplished, it also means
dodging the careful eye of the local rulers, who rarely have any reason
to allow such magic to any but their supporters.

Crafting Minor Magics

Any Godbound with a relevant Word or Fact can create a minor magic item,
with Godbound of Artifice being able to craft almost anything. The raw
power that the Godbound wield is not very conducive to fixing the small
sparks of magic that imbue minor items, however, and it\'s not unlike
trying to build a watch with a forge hammer.

A Godbound who wants to create a minor item should describe its
function, either lifting a magic item from an existing old-school game
or formulating a new effect. If the item replicates a gift, it should
probably be an artifact instead, but such distinctions are for the GM\'s
judgment. If the item is acceptable, the Godbound then crafts or
acquires the physical object to be enchanted and expends Dominion.
Potions and single-charge items cost 1 Dominion, minor permanent items
or charged items with multiple charges cost 2 Dominion, and major
permanent items cost 4 Dominion. Very powerful items of minor magics
might cost 8 points, though at that level they\'re perhaps better
treated as artifacts. Potions and trifles can be brewed in a day, while
other minor items take about a week to imbue. A Godbound can create
twice as many of these items by adding an extra point of Dominion. Thus,
a Godbound who wanted 32 magical [swords +1]{.CharOverride-2} for their
personal friends would spend 2 points for crafting a minor item, and 5
more to double it five times, finishing them all in one week.

Godbound who want to equip everyone in a region or group with a
particular magic item can enact it as a change, as given on page
[[132]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor125).
A Godbound who wanted to give a village militia magical [spears +2
]{.CharOverride-2}could thus enact it as an Impossible change for 4
Dominion points, much more cheaply than personally crafting however many
spears they\'d otherwise need. Such large-scale work is easier and more
natural for a divinity\'s celestial might than the fashioning of
individual trinkets on a piece-by-piece basis.

Example Minor Magics

All of the items below can be used by Godbound and will affect them
normally. Most of them are as rarely found as any other magic item,
though womb-drying salts can be found in any substantial community,
magnetic guns are a commonplace in the Bright Republic, and regalia
armor was so common during the Last War that many suits still survive as
heirlooms today.

[Blood Compass:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This small golden disc requires that
the user feed it some portion of their blood before it will function,
inflicting 1 hit point or hit die of damage. Creatures with 1 hit die
will perish if they use this item. Once fueled, the compass points in
the direction of a particular creature named by the holder, one that
they either love or hate. The compass\' accuracy is better the closer
they are, and it will remain pointing at the target for 24 hours after
being fed. Changing the desired target requires feeding the compass once
more.

[Hardened Tech:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The advanced technology of the Bright
Republic is usually dependent on the etheric node installations of that
island in order to function correctly. Hardened technology has been
reinforced with theotechnical components to allow it to function
elsewhere in Arcem, also providing it with integral power. Such
technology is most often found in the form of vehicles or small
electrical power generators, and given the difficulty of creating it, it
is prohibitively expensive for all but the wealthiest and most
profligate elites of other societies.

[Magnetic Guns:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The Bright Republic eschews gunpowder
weaponry, preferring magnetic guns that fire iron slugs with the
statistics given on page
[[13]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor012).
Most models have sufficiently large magazines to make reloading
unnecessary during a single firefight. While the iron ammunition is
relatively simple to craft anywhere, the guns only function in the
Bright Republic unless they\'ve been built as hardened tech. The guns
themselves are easily mass-produced by Republican factories and are in
common currency among the populace and military forces. The latter group
has larger versions mounted on tanks or used as coastal defense
artillery.

[Poppet:]{.Bolded-Run-In} These humanoid dolls come in a wide variety of
shapes and sizes, from child companions no larger than a teddy bear to
full-sized models meant for more adult pastimes. Poppets are directed by
their ancient expert systems to behave according to their roles and
their long-lost cultures. They are incapable of learning new functions
or developing true sentience, but can conduct conversation related to
their roles and navigate the execution of their duties.

Poppets can be keyed to obey particular owners by a competent
theotechnician or other artificer-wizard. Unfortunately, an undetectable
1% of these devices were originally intended for criminal ends, and will
wait for a convenient opportunity to murder their owner before fleeing
and positioning themselves where a new owner can find them. A larger
percentage are relics of cultures where certain modes of behavior were
perfectly normal in ways that would be shocking, injurious, or
occasionally lethal in the modern day.

An ordinary poppet has 3 hit dice, an AC of 7, and cannot fight.
Assassin models fight as an automaton relict as described in the
Bestiary, and cannot be created intentionally in these latter days.

[[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor182}Regalia
Armor:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The holy warriors, philosophy-crusaders, exalted
champions, and imperial harem guards of the Former Empires often placed
symbolism and aesthetic preferences over the practicality of thick
steel. The fashioning of regalia armor was devised as a method to flaunt
a particular philosophy\'s style or symbols without costing the wearer
the benefit of sturdy protection. Regalia armor is wildly impractical at
first sight, ranging from massive suits of impossibly heavy steel plate
to mere thimble-sized vials of ever-replenished body paint that protects
its bearer. Even so, it functions as normal armor of its intended type:
light, medium, or heavy, regardless of its visual appearance. Medium and
heavy regalia armor apply saving throw penalties just as their normal
varieties do. While basic versions of regalia armor are comparatively
simple for enchanters to fashion in the modern age, most Former Empire
examples are enchanted to at least a +1 bonus, as their mortal wearers
were persons of great status or import.

[Womb-Drying Salts:]{.Bolded-Run-In} These salts are relatively easy to
manufacture for a trained hedge-mage or market alchemist and are within
the reach of even the modestly affluent. Even so, their use is tightly
regulated in most societies as they are a form of poison that renders a
female human permanently sterile. The salts are a tasteless, odorless
powder that can be mixed into food and drink. A small dose is difficult
to notice but allows a Hardiness saving throw to resist its effects. A
larger dose is unmistakable but will invariably work on the consumer.
The salts produce sweating, weakness, and violent cramps, with 5% of the
users dying over an increasingly painful week of affliction. Those who
survive cannot be cured of their condition by anything short of a divine
miracle. These salts are most often legally restricted to the use of
licensed prostitutes, but their use as poisons by otherwise-dispossessed
stepchildren and heritors is a commonplace in tragic stories. A version
that works on men, [spring-stilling powder,]{.CharOverride-3} is known
to some alchemists.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer267 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker354}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor183}Celestial
Engines

High within the halls of broken Heaven are the engines of the world.
These enigmatic devices maintain the natural laws of the realms and
preserve them against the constant hunger of Uncreated Night. Once they
were tended by the angelic Host, legion upon legion of celestial beings
to preserve their perfect function and mystic order. Now they run down
in slowing cycles, those that have not been broken, scavenged, or
sabotaged by Heaven\'s bitter exiles.

Each engine maintains a particular natural law or geographic structure
for a particular realm. There may be an engine for a particular
mountain, or for the natural progression of seasons, or for the
happiness that wells in a mother\'s heart at her newborn infant\'s
smile. Engines can stand responsible for vast concepts such as
\"gravity\" or tiny details such as the color of sunlight on gold. If
the engine is broken, that concept will cease to function correctly in
the world or that phenomenon will become deranged. Perhaps secondary
engines exist to support it in a haphazard fashion, or perhaps in that
realm gravity or that particular mountain will unravel away into
nothingness---or an even worse consequence. A Godbound with a Word
related to the engine\'s function can discern what it\'s doing and what
realm it is supporting. Those without this insight can only guess or
hope for nearby information inscribed by long-vanished angelic keepers.

A celestial engine is unmistakable. Some appear as crystalline matrices,
others as gears that burn with solar fire, some as impossibly subtle
meshes of flowing energy that speak of profound truths below. The
physical embodiment of an engine is always magnificent, whether it fills
an entire shard of Heaven or exists only as a single perfect fist-sized
sphere. Godbound and other Word-bound entities recognize such engines on
sight, and can feel their proximate presence even from miles away. This
discernment isn\'t fine enough to lead the entity to the engine, but
alerts it that one exists nearby.

Placing Engines

An intact celestial engine is usually only to be found in a shard of
Heaven, though there are some realm-bound engines that can be located
physically within a domain. Every Godbound within ten miles can tell
that there is an engine somewhere nearby, though they can\'t determine
its exact location without suitable miracles of knowledge or the right
ancient maps and instructions.

When an engine is placed, the GM should decide whether it\'s intact or
broken, and if it\'s intact, whether or not it\'s maintaining anything
important in the PCs\' own realm. Particularly ruthless heroes might be
willing to smash an engine and loot its shards if the disastrous
consequences will come down on some unknown realm. Truly heartless
saboteurs might intentionally destroy an engine if it\'s supporting some
vital element of an enemy nation or people, trusting that the
side-effects won\'t reach their own kindred as well.

If an engine is broken, the GM should choose whether or not it\'s
already been salvaged. Some broken engines have been plundered by the
Made Gods who shattered them or later theurges who craved their power,
but many others still retain a useful number of celestial shards. These
shards tend to attract attention from supernatural entities, even if
they\'re not capable of making use of their magical potency. The simple
presence of the shards is invigorating and pleasing to creatures of
magic, and the bold explorer of Heaven can often tell that something
precious is near when monstrous foes abound.

Destroying and Repairing Engines

Some celestial engines have been intentionally destroyed. In the
beginning, this havoc was wrought by the Made Gods and their servitors,
either to plunder precious celestial shards for their terrestrial war
machine or to inflict crippling metaphysical damage on the realms and
nations of their enemies. Later, bitter angelic powers abandoned their
ancient duties of protection in order to break the engines and avenge
themselves on humanity\'s usurpation.

Word-bound creatures can wreck an engine with a suitable miracle. Any
used violently against the engine can break it, though the celestial
feedback involved invariably does 5d10 damage to the saboteur that
cannot be deflected with Word-based gifts. Most engines collapse when
shattered, though some might explode or produce drastic changes in the
immediate environment based on their original purpose.

Fixing an engine requires either the Word of Artifice or a Word related
to the engine\'s original function. The would-be repairer also needs a
number of celestial shards equal to those originally salvaged from the
engine. The actual repair requires only one round to execute if the
necessary parts and Word are available, as the engine\'s existence is a
thing devoutly desired by natural law. The repairer must do so from the
heart of the broken engine, however, and some enemies might take pains
to make that as difficult as possible.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker355}Celestial
Shards

A wrecked engine will provide from 1 to 6 celestial shards to a
salvager. These shards are priceless to the Godbound, being necessary
not only for the creation of artifacts as per page
[[177]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor180),
but also for the enacting of many otherwise impossible changes in a
realm, as described on page [130]{.Hyperlink}. Shards can be used
interchangeably in a project, and the original purpose of their engine
doesn\'t need to relate to their later use.

Celestial shards are small, usually no more than fist-sized fragments of
the broken engine. A Word-bound creature recognizes a celestial shard on
sight, and can feel the general presence of a shard if they come within
fifty feet of it. A Godbound who needs Dominion more than they need the
shard can absorb its celestial energy, gaining 4 points of Dominion
instantly at the cost of destroying the shard.

Shards aren\'t always found directly in the wreckage of a celestial
engine. Some are located in treasure caches below, either as spare parts
kept in an ancient Former Empire ruin or as more modern trinkets prized
by their wealthy owners for their gleam and unnatural splendor. They are
sufficiently rare, however, that buying them on the open market is
impossible in most realms.

As the GM, you should make sure that the PCs have the opportunity to
gain celestial shards if they set their mind to it. They may need to
hunt down rumors of earthly caches at low levels, until they\'re strong
enough to fight through a Night Road and reach a shard of Heaven they
can plunder. Without the chance to scrounge up some shards, they won\'t
be able to craft artifacts or perform major Impossible changes in their
domains.

As a general rule of thumb, most major treasure caches should contain a
celestial shard. It may have been mistaken by its owner for a large
jewel or a strange piece of jewelry, but the PCs can tell its true
nature. If the group wants more, they can make a point of pursuing tales
and dusty histories in search of more of the precious shards, or prepare
an expedition through the Night Roads.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer268 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker356}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor184}Wards

There are two kinds of major wards most often found in places of
importance throughout the realms: [mundus wards]{.CharOverride-3} and
[empyrean wards]{.CharOverride-3}. Both serve to check the power of the
Made Gods, and by extension, the divine energies used by Godbound and
other potent supernatural creatures. Their original creators intended
for the wards to protect them from the hostile attentions of the Made
Gods of rival civilizations, but some have persisted down to the present
day. Their creation is impossible to the entities of the modern day,
though some say the secrets might yet be found in some forgotten hall of
Hell.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker357}Mundus
Wards

Mundus wards protect a region from the supernatural influence of Made
Gods and other divinely-connected entities, including Godbound. They
subtly drain away the celestial forces used by these entities, making it
much more difficult to create long-term or large-scale changes in the
area.

The strength of a mundus ward is rated from 1 to 10, with very few
modern wards stronger than 4 or 5, and most of the existing ones ranging
from 1 to 3. Cities and villages founded since the Last War and the fall
of the Former Empires usually have no mundus wards, but older ruins,
ancient capitals, and venerable fortresses almost all have at least a
modest ward. If more than one mundus ward exists in an area the divinity
is trying to alter, only the strongest ward applies.

The rating of a mundus ward is added to the base difficulty of any
change made in the area by Influence or Dominion, as described on page
[[129]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor122).
Thus, making an Improbable change on a city would usually cost 4
Dominion- 2 for the base cost of affecting a city, multiplied by 2 for
an Improbable change. With a rating 3 mundus ward on the city, however,
it would cost 10 Dominion, with 5 for the base cost multiplied by 2 for
the difficulty.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker358}Empyrean
Wards

Empyrean wards are a more powerful, restricted form of ward reserved for
ancient strongholds and high-security buildings. These wards actually
negate the divine energies of a Word-bound creature, suppressing
miracles and gifts and making it impossible for weaker Godbound to
trigger their abilities.

Like mundus wards, empyrean wards are rated from 1 to 10, though only
the very strongest wards exceed 3 or 4, and the great majority of wards
remaining from the Former Empires have decayed to 1 or 2-point strength.
Empyrean wards only ever protect specific buildings, structures, or
complexes; even the largest empyrean ward is barely big enough to cover
a village.

Inside the ward, a supernatural creature must Commit Effort equal to the
ward\'s strength before they can use any gift or ability that requires
Effort. Their Constant and intrinsic gifts and abilities continue to
function, as do auto-saves, but anything else that requires them to
Commit Effort can\'t be done until they\'ve overcome the suppressing
buffer. They can reclaim the Effort as soon as they are finished using
their abilities, and any changes or effects produced will still remain.

Empyrean wards do nothing to interfere with sorcery, whether in the form
of low magic, theurgy, or minor magical items. These spells and devices
function normally within their protected zones, even if they require the
magus to Commit Effort to trigger their effects or quickly cast them.

A Ward\'s Focus

Every ward is built around a physical focus. In some cases this is a
single specific object kept in some heavily-guarded place. It might be a
sacred idol, a holy mandala, or an enigmatic machine churning away
without visible effect. In other cases, the physical focus is more
dispersed, taking the form of sanctified obelisks in the area, carvings
embedded in local buildings, or buried anchors of sacred symbols at
geomantically-important points.

So long as this physical focus remains largely intact and inside the
area covered by the ward, the ward will stay up. A ward\'s focus can
handle a certain amount of damage and defacement before it starts to
degrade. Wards focused on a single object are easier to defend, but an
enemy who gets close enough to shatter the holy idol or burn the mandala
will snuff out the ward in a moment. Dispersed carvings and monuments
are harder to protect, but it usually takes at least a day\'s steady,
obvious violence against it before any significant harm can be done to
so many dispersed points of importance.

A ward\'s focus requires trained theotechnicians for its repair and
maintenance. Without this regular tending, the ward will tend to degrade
over time, though it rarely ever vanishes entirely until the focus is
destroyed. Knowledge of ward maintenance was strictly controlled in most
of the Former Empires to prevent easy sabotage, and very few modern
cultures have preserved the knowledge. Scarce more of them even
understand what the wards are [meant]{.CharOverride-2} for, and many
cities and strongholds don\'t even realize their wards exist. Only when
they\'re assaulted by some divine power does the ward\'s effect come
into play.

Ward foci always come with a key---a physical object which grants the
holder the ability to ignore the ward\'s effects. Just as importantly,
the key-holder can grant or remove immunity to the ward\'s effects to
other people, adding or removing them from the ward\'s permission list.
Those locales that still understand the function of their wards guard
their key jealously, and usually make it an element of the ruler\'s
regalia. Those that have forgotten their wards have likely lost the key
as well.

Using Wards In Your Campaign

Wards are one explanation why assorted supernatural monstrosities
haven\'t already rolled over major cities or ancient strongholds of your
campaign setting. Even a low-level empyrean ward is enough to hamstring
Godbound or other supernatural entities with limited Effort available,
and strong wards can render a city largely immune to the worst powers of
their divine foes.

Of course, this just means that more traditional means of conquest are
required. Armies of zealous warriors can assault the defenders, ready to
tear up the ward once they\'re able to reach its focus. Hostile entities
can cultivate neighboring powers, building them up and using them as
indirect weapons against the warded region. And of course, dark secrets
of theurgy can cut through the protections, assuming some daring band of
heroes isn\'t ready to steal the ward\'s key.

Not every city or region should have wards. It can frustrate a group of
heroes when their every attempt to enact large changes is stymied by a
heavy mundus ward, or when every two-bit border kinglet is sitting in an
ancient palace with a four-point empyrean ward protecting him. It\'s
best to save wards for places of great importance in the campaign, ones
that should require more than casual effort from the PCs to overcome
their defenses and overwhelm their inmates.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer269 .Single-Column}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor185}Secrets
of Arcem

Mortals, Godwalkers, Paradises, and Other Esoterica
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer270 .Text-Frame}
The pages that follow are a special reward for you, noble reader. Your
generous purchase of this book ensures that your humble scribe will
continue to spend late hours at his toils, dealing with all those
innumerable painful tasks that come between the flight of imagination
and the tangible reality of a finished document. I cannot continue to do
it without your support, and that support is [richly]{.CharOverride-2}
appreciated. With that said, what has your generosity won you? In this
section, I reveal the deeper secrets of seven additional topics to
expand your game and provide new avenues of excitement for your players.

[Creating Mortal Heroes]{.CharOverride-3} gives your players the tools
for creating mortal characters, whether hard-bitten freebooters of no
special grace or heroically-gifted paragons of mortal talent. These
mortal PCs can be used as sidekicks or minions of Godbound heroes, or a
group might wish to play out an entire campaign revolving around the
desperate heroism of wholly mortal protagonists faced with a world of
tremendous danger.

[Cybernetics and Clockwork]{.CharOverride-3} explicates the secrets of
Bright Republic cybertech and the magical clockwork prostheses of the
Vissian maestros. These augmentations are of greatest use to mortal
characters, but they can also provide additional options for Godbound
heroes, or flavor the abilities of mortal antagonists. These gifts do
come at a price, however, and GMs might choose not to include them in
their own campaigns, or leave them as flavoring for NPCs. It may even be
that you\'ll want to add more of your own creation.

[Divine Supremacy]{.CharOverride-3} details the means by which a
Godbound or a pantheon can ascend to become the supreme deity of a
realm. Some PCs will attempt this as a prelude to the creation of a
divine Paradise, while other heroes will find themselves fighting a
desperate war against some titanic foe who is dangerously close to
achieving this goal in their own home realm.

[Godwalkers]{.CharOverride-3} describes the tremendous engines of war
devised in the waning years of the Last War. These titanic walkers,
vehicles, and stranger armatures serve to channel celestial forces onto
the battlefield, allowing their mortal pilots to stand as threats even
to the might of a Godbound or other great supernatural foe. While few
godwalkers survive in this present age of darkness, heroes might find an
operational one in some long-lost corner of the realm, or dream of
rebuilding the theotechnical infrastructure needed to forge their own.

[The Martial Strifes]{.CharOverride-3} provides a new set of combat
abilities that Godbound and other supernatural entities can pursue.
Diligent heroes and gifted mortals can unlock the secrets of celestial
conflict with these supernatural martial arts, channeling cosmic
principles of struggle onto mundane battlefields. Gifted masters can
teach lesser versions of these arts to trusted mortal minions, or even
imbue them with the power of the True Strifes if they\'re willing to
invest the divine Dominion necessary for such a gift.

[Paradises]{.CharOverride-3} reveals the methods by which a Godbound or
an allied pantheon can forge a divine refuge for themselves and the
souls of their believers. A Paradise can be molded as its masters
choose, the laws of reality and the shape of the land far more mutable
to their will than any more terrestrial realm. Building a Paradise can
be a long-term goal of a pantheon as they strive to ensure the safety of
their followers in the afterlife, and work to preserve their stronghold
against the machinations of mighty foes.

Lastly, [Themed Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} will show you how to create
new types of Godbound to flesh out your own campaign setting. You\'ll
find advice for developing the concept and mechanics of these new
variants, and a wide selection of example traits to adjust the way they
play. Moreover, you\'ll find several example varieties of themed
Godbound already created and ready for you to drop into your own game as
you see fit.

These seven sections are meant to be used as you wish for your own game.
Not all of them will fit every campaign, and you shouldn\'t feel obliged
to include everything here simply because it\'s in the book. These tools
have been written to be balanced, functional new options that shouldn\'t
overturn most games by their inclusion, but only you fully understand
the kind of experience your players are looking for and the kind of
campaign you want to run for them.

Above all, you should take these sections as encouragement to make your
own changes and build your own additions to the game. In this, you
should follow the same guidelines used for creating anything else in a
sandbox; make it if you need it soon or if you\'re having fun with it.
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is meant to be a sandbox, both in what the
players can accomplish and in what you, the GM, can feel comfortable in
creating. Don\'t hesitate to try things out and experiment in play. If
it\'s not working, then change it or remove it, but if you and your
group are willing to try something then [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} has
room to give it a spin.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer271 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor186}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker359}Creating
Mortal Heroes

Some groups might have an interest in playing strictly mortal heroes in
a [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} campaign, either as the prelude to their
eventual awakening as Godbound or as a full-fledged campaign. Such a
game might play out in the history of a realm before the coming of the
Godbound or it might be a tale of grim valor in the shadow of new-born
demigods and a great changing of the age. Whatever the specifics, such
groups will want a little guidance on how to put together mortal PCs.

Using Mortals PCs in Play

The mortal rules given in this section are meant to produce player
characters, and so they don\'t use the exact same enemy rules for
mortals as are given in the Bestiary chapter. The PCs that the players
use need a little more individuality and customization possibilities
than Generic City Guardsman #16, or a Faceless Mortal Hero-Leader. The
mortal PCs created by this method should possess roughly the same power
and abilities as these NPCs, but with more detail to their characters
and more room for player customization.

The world of [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} is a harsh one for mortals.
Common adventurers and ordinary villagers can\'t expect to last long
against the abominations of the world, and even budding mortal heroes
are often desperately hard-pressed by a foe that a Godbound hero might
dismiss with a wave of their implacable blade. Many of the creatures
listed in the bestiary would spell instant doom for a party of mortal
adventurers, and even lesser rabble or Mobs of common foes can wreak
havoc on a group of ordinary mortal freebooters.

Yet with time, cunning, and the desperate wit of those often in fearsome
danger, mortals can grow to be threats even to such as Godbound. While
they may be no match for a Godbound one-on-one, a party of grizzled
champions can bring down an unwary divinity or bloody the nose of a
monstrous titan, earning themselves the everlasting glory that comes
when the weak rise up to smite the strong.

Types of Mortal PCs

Mortal PCs come in two kinds: [common mortals]{.CharOverride-3}, and
[heroic mortals]{.CharOverride-3}. It\'s up to the group to decide which
kind of mortals their PCs will be. If the group is looking for a classic
\"dirt farmers go adventuring\" campaign where ordinary PCs are
constantly faced with the risk of death and hideous failure, then they
might choose to roll up common mortals. If they\'re looking for a more
cinematic, action-hero sort of campaign with powerful mortal
protagonists who are less concerned about every ruffian with a knife,
they might choose to make heroic mortals for their game.

Common mortals are just that: common men and women of no special gifts
or remarkable talent. They might be rich, or influential, or good in a
fight, or gifted in their trade, but their abilities aren\'t remarkable
in the world and their natural gifts are limited. A life of adventure is
filled with terrible danger for a common mortal, but one who manages to
survive these trials has accomplished a grand feat.

Heroic mortals are blessed with special virtues, either by grace of
enormous natural talent, magical blessings, an exotic lineage, or some
remnant of ancient magical transhuman augmentations. While still very
much human, their talents are flatly better than common sorts.

It may be that the GM decides to start PCs out as common mortals. If
they survive to third or fourth level, they might then be gifted with
the benefits of heroic existence, having proven their mettle.

Talents and Mortals

In [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}, mortals distinguish their particular
abilities and aptitudes with [talents]{.CharOverride-3}, particular
powers or gifts that they have by virtue of their upbringing, training,
or natural gifts. Rather than taking \"classes\" or acquiring pre-made
bundles of special talents, players choose individual talents for their
mortals and assemble their abilities out of these particular gifts.

A new-made mortal gets to pick two talents. Common mortals can only pick
from the common talent list, which is comprised of relatively basic
knacks and aptitudes that any ordinary man or woman might be expected to
develop. Heroic mortals can choose from the common list or the heroic
talent list, the latter containing some graces that are flatly better
than what common mortals can take, or talents that grant abilities
completely beyond those of ordinary human beings. As the mortal
increases in character level, they can learn new talents that fit with
the Facts they\'ve established about themselves.

The talents listed here are only examples of the possibilities.
Particular organizations, communities, or training schools might offer
talents of their own, or the player and GM might come up with new
talents specifically suited to a player\'s interests. The existing
talents can be used as guidelines for what might fit as a new talent.

Legacy Talents

Some talents are listed as \"legacy\" talents, the product of ancient
magical alterations or sophisticated arcane gengineering. Most of these
alterations have been bred out of the human populace over the past
thousand years, with bloodlines fading into the general population and
manifesting at most as small quirks of appearance. Most societies
tolerate these petty novelties, though major physical differences invite
fear and distrust, and some polities are adamantly suspicious of any
deviation from expected norms.

Some alterations, however, are persistent or significant enough to give
a mortal real benefits. These legacies might be part of an existing
family found in the mortal\'s homeland or they might be a one-off
novelty conjured up by chance genetic or magical recombination. Some
might be tokens of alien lineage, with some non-human creature in the
hero\'s family tree. Mortal PCs can take these legacy talents to reflect
the special traits of their own bloodline or magical nature. Legacy
talents must usually be taken when the character is created, though
later manifestations can be permitted by the GM if the PC can explain
how they arise, or if the PC searches out the strange treatments and
alien lore needed to provoke the awakening of their latent gifts.

Any PC who takes a legacy talent, however, is marked by some clear and
visible stigmata of inhumanity. It may be something as relatively minor
as an unnatural hair, eye, or skin color, or something as drastic as
extra limbs or a non-human body configuration. Whatever the detail, most
societies have seen enough legacy-bearers that they\'ll be recognized as
such on sight, even if the mark is relatively minor. In most communities
this will earn a PC extra watchfulness from the locals until it\'s clear
that they\'re no latent Misbegotten. In other societies, the PC might be
marked as a natural slave to normal humans, or elevated as one specially
blessed by the ancients. Some small polities even have noble classes
composed exclusively of those that bear a legacy, either because of the
genuine superiority of their natural gifts or because of the mere
assumption that it is so.

Creating a Common Mortal

Common mortals are the turnip farmers, rat catchers, personages of easy
virtue, candlemakers, city watchmen, and other ordinary men and women of
the world. While they\'re not often blessed with much innate aptitude
for adventure, the constant nearness of death can push them to heights
of cunning and desperate resourcefulness that can see them through
seemingly hopeless situations. To create a common mortal, follow the
steps below.

1.  Roll the PC\'s attributes with 3d6 six times, put in whatever order
    you wish. If you want to use an array, you can use 13, 12, 11, 10,
    9, and 8 for your attributes, placed as you like. Calculate your
    attribute checks and saving throws as normal.
2.  Choose four Facts. One Fact should be about the PC\'s origins and
    home community. The second should be about their profession or
    chosen trade. The third should be some unusual personal talent,
    relationship, or training, and the fourth should relate to some
    important organizational membership, family relation, or group
    enmity they have.
3.  Choose two talents from the common talents list. These talents must
    somehow relate to at least one of the Facts you\'ve chosen. You
    can\'t decide to be a Hardened Combatant, for example, if none of
    your Facts have anything to do with fighting or violence.
4.  Your common mortal has one hit point, modified by your Constitution
    modifier and any talents that might apply. Even a Constitution
    penalty can\'t drop you below one hit point.
5.  You have a maximum Effort of 1, but no use for it unless you have a
    talent that specifically uses it, or you need to Commit it to
    benefit from magical healing. You have no Influence.
6.  Take whatever weaponry, armor, and other personal belongings are
    appropriate to the Facts you\'ve chosen. Without some special
    talent, your base attack bonus is +0. Barring some unusual
    circumstance, you start with 0 Wealth.

And with that, you have a common mortal ready to find their fate in the
waiting realm beyond. It may not be a particularly
[happy]{.CharOverride-2} fate, but if you\'re choosing to play a common
mortal, you\'re probably not looking for an easy time in the world.

Creating a Heroic Mortal

While even heroic mortals are no match for Godbound, such men and women
have a distinct edge on their less gifted brethren, even when they\'re
just starting out their heroic career. Follow the steps below to conjure
up this brave soul.

1.  Roll the PC\'s attributes with 4d6 six times, dropping the lowest
    die and placing them in whatever order is desired. If you want to
    use an array, you can use 16, 14, 13, 13, 10, and 8 in any order you
    want. Calculate attribute checks and saving throws as usual.
2.  Choose four Facts. One Fact should be about the PC\'s origins and
    home community. The second should be about their profession or
    chosen trade. The third should be some unusual personal talent,
    relationship, or training, and the fourth should relate to some
    important organizational membership, family relation, or group
    enmity they have.
3.  Choose two talents, picking from either the common talents list or
    the heroic talents list. Many of the latter talents are strictly
    better than their common versions. The talents you pick must somehow
    relate to at least one of the Facts you\'ve chosen.
4.  Your heroic mortal has four hit points, modified by your
    Constitution modifier and any talents that might apply.
5.  You have a maximum Effort of 1. Unlike common mortals, you can
    Commit this for the day to automatically succeed on a failed saving
    throw, just as a Godbound can do. Also like a Godbound, you are
    automatically counted as a worthy foe against all enemies and their
    nefarious powers, making you immune to Fray dice and many
    overwhelming gifts. You have no Influence, however.
6.  Take whatever weaponry, armor, and other personal belongings are
    appropriate to the Facts you\'ve chosen. Without some special
    talent, your base attack bonus is +0. Barring some unusual
    circumstance, you start with 0 Wealth.

With these steps taken, you now have a hero ready to face the savage
world. Assuming this budding legend lives long enough to attain higher
levels, they might someday become fearsome enough to give even a
Godbound pause.

Common Talents

[Blessed Luck:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Once per day, you can choose to
automatically succeed at a saving throw, even after failing a roll. This
talent may be taken more than once, allowing this ability to be used an
additional time each day.

[Carte Blanche:]{.Bolded-Run-In} It may be due to bribes, or familial
connections, or favors you\'ve performed, but you and your immediate
companions are very hard to arrest. If the carte blanche applies to an
entire nation, you or your friends can shrug off a property crime,
trespass, or burglary offense once a month. If it applies only to a city
or sub-region, you can escape justice even for murder, provided you
don\'t kill anyone important to the local rulers.

[Cybernetic Adaptation:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Assuming your GM is allowing
cyber in their campaign, you gain two integration points, as described
in the Cybernetics section of this chapter. If you\'re a newly-made PC,
you can pick two points of already-implanted cyber to start play.

[Desperate Strike:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You can Commit Effort for the day as
an Instant action to hit a target with a physical attack. The blow
connects on any roll other than a natural 1.

[Diehard Will:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You can keep functioning for one round
after falling to zero hit points. When mortally wounded, common mortals
don\'t die unless struck again or the scene ends without their wounds
being tended. Heroic mortals don\'t die of their mortal wounds unless
injured again while so crippled. Otherwise, they regain consciousness an
hour later with 1 hit point.

[Expert Thief:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You roll attribute checks related to
stealth and larcenous activities twice, and take the better roll.

[Extra Effort:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You gain one additional maximum Effort.
You can take this talent as often as your opportunities allow.

[Flurry of Blows:]{.Bolded-Run-In} When you take an attack action, you
can make two attacks. These attacks may have the same target or be split
among foes within range. You must be at least 5th level to take this
talent, and you can only take it once.

[Hardened Combatant:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You\'ve seen plenty of fighting or
have the innate instincts of a killer. When you take this talent, your
base attack bonus becomes half your level, rounded up. If it\'s already
that good, as from a prior purchase of the talent, it becomes equal to
your level.

[Influential:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You know how to convince others to
cooperate, and which strings need to be pulled to get things done. You
have a maximum Influence equal to your character level, though you can
only use it to accomplish Plausible changes that might be achieved with
persuasion or bribes you make. If you have a Fact related to what
you\'re influencing, you can make Improbable changes as well.

[Know the Type:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Pick a trade or social class, such as
merchants, nobles, sailors, farmers, slaves, or the like. You can find a
friendly and helpful member of that class whenever they gather.

[Legacy/Arctic Adaptation:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You are impervious to normal
environmental levels of cold, and subtract one point of damage per die
from all supernatural or weaponized cold. You can see heat sources even
in darkness out to your normal sight range, perceiving them accurately
enough to target them with attacks or identify general body shapes.

[Legacy/Desert Adaptation:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You need not drink more than
once a month, and ordinary non-dehydrated foods amply supply your usual
needs. You are impervious to normal environmental cold or heat and to
non-magical flames smaller than a bonfire.

[Legacy/Inherited Prowess:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A trace of the magical
transhuman modifications the Former Empires enacted still can be found
in your blood. Increase an attribute to 16, or to 18 if it\'s already 16
or higher. Common mortals can take this talent only once, while heroic
mortals can take it as many times as they wish.

[Legacy/Mindspeech:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You have an intuitive ability to
communicate telepathically with anyone you can see, regardless of
conventional language barriers. If you\'ve spent at least a week in the
company of a person, you can contact them even when out of sight,
provided they\'re within 500 feet of you.

[Legacy/Natural Weapon:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You possess some impressive
natural weapon, such as retractable claws, razor-sharp teeth, or a
massive shell-plated fist. If the weapon is retractable or concealable,
it does 1d8 damage on a hit. Larger, unconcealable body weaponry does
1d10. You may use either Strength or Dexterity to modify the weapon\'s
hit roll and damage. Even if the weapon is concealable, you still bear
some mark of your legacy.

[Legacy/Tough Hide:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Whether through an exceptionally
resilient skin or uncanny agility, you have a base armor class of 5. You
gain no benefit from wearing armor of equal or worse AC, but shields
still help you.

[Legacy/Void Adaptation:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You do not need to breathe,
eat, or drink provided you get at least an hour of sunlight a day. You
are impervious to hard vacuum and radiation. You can ignore the thermal
conditions of deep space, but cold or fire used as a weapon disrupts
your adaptive measures and causes damage normally.

[Legacy/Water Adaptation:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You can breathe, see, and
move freely in water, and ignore high pressure and cold temperatures
above freezing.

[Lesser Old-School Ability:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This special talent can
only be taken with the GM\'s permission. You gain one class ability or
special perk from another class of their choice drawn from another
old-school game. Repelling Undead, a knight\'s ability to heal with a
touch, monastic disease immunity or the like may be selected. See the
following pages for details on this talent.

[Lesser Strife Training:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Each time you take this
talent, you learn one degree of a lesser Strife of your choice. Taking
it three times would thus allow you to master the lesser Strife. Heroic
mortals would take the Lesser Strife Mastery talent instead, which
grants them all three levels of a lesser Strife at once.

[Low Magic Training:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You\'ve learned the apprentice
arts of a low magic tradition. If you already know the apprentice arts
and take this talent again, you are now an adept in it. A third purchase
will make you a master, which is as much expertise as a common mortal
can attain in a tradition.

[Nine Lives:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Once per day, you evade or block a
physical attack that would reduce you to zero hit points. The damage is
not inflicted and the attack is treated as a miss. This ability cannot
protect against spells or environmental harm.

[Parallel Life:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You have a complete second identity of
a profession and details of your choice, one which has no known ties to
your real identity. You can don or doff an appropriate disguise in no
more than thirty seconds. Only those who see you change, use magic to
learn the truth, or are presented with obvious evidence of the
connection will realize the truth.

[Professional Expertise:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Pick a specific profession.
Whenever you roll attribute checks related to it, roll twice and take
the better result.

[Sacred Steel:]{.Bolded-Run-In} All your attacks, unarmed or
weapon-based, are treated as magical weapons. Pick one class of enemies
each time this talent is taken: undead, Uncreated, sorcerers, or some
other magical class of foe. You gain +1 hit and damage against those
enemies.

[Skilled First Aid:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You\'re very good at mending combat
injuries and similar traumas. Provided you have your medical tools with
you, you can cure one point of damage on yourself and each of your
allies after every scene in which they were injured. This takes about
five minutes per person, and if not done within an hour after the
injury, it\'s too late to help them this way. The subjects need not
Commit Effort to benefit from this healing.

[Storm of Blows:]{.Bolded-Run-In} When you take an attack action, you
can make three attacks. These attacks may have the same target or be
split among foes within range. You must be at least 9th level to take
this ability and must already have Flurry of Blows. The abilities don\'t
stack.

[Swift to Act:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You must be at least ninth level to take
this talent, which allows you to take a second full action each round
immediately after your first. Powers or talents that grant multiple
attacks don\'t apply to any attack made with this second action.

[Toughness:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Common mortals gain a bonus hit point at
every odd-numbered level, including those earned before this talent was
taken. Heroic mortals gain one bonus hit point per level.

[Vancian Caster:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This special talent can only be taken
if the GM is including spell lists from other old-school games in their
campaign. See the special rules for this talent.

[Wealthy:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You\'re from a rich family or have command of
a great deal of wealth. You can always afford anything that costs 1
Wealth or less, and once per game session can spend up to your level in
Wealth points. This Wealth must be spent on a particular good, service,
or property and cannot be stockpiled as pure coinage.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer272 .Sidebar}
Designing New Talents

The talent options offered in this section are meant to cover many of
the more likely concepts for a mortal hero. It\'s quite probable that
you\'ll want to come up with some more of your own, however, either at
the request of a player or to flesh out your own world. There are a few
guidelines to keep in mind when doing so.

First, avoid talent trees. A really nice ability like Master-level low
magic might be gated behind a few lesser levels of competence, but avoid
this whenever possible. Put a minimum PC level on a talent if you want
to keep it out of novice hands, but talent trees tend to be punishing to
those who don\'t map a PC\'s progress in advance.

Second, don\'t sweat too much over fine details of balance. The PCs are
mortals in a [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} campaign. They will never run
short of horrible things that can slaughter them. At most, try to make
sure that talents don\'t render another PC useless in comparison.

Third, try to make a talent work by default when possible. A
widely-applicable talent like [Hardened Combatant ]{.CharOverride-3}or
[Expert Thief ]{.CharOverride-3}might only grant a bonus to a roll or a
reroll option, but more focused talents should just work barring serious
opposition. Abilities that add new options to a player\'s choices tend
to be more interesting than marginal improvements to a common action.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer273 .Single-Column}
  ---------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Common Talents                                 Benefits of the Talent
  [Blessed Luck]{.CharOverride-7}                Once per day, auto-succeed on a saving throw you\'ve just failed.
  [Carte Blanche]{.CharOverride-7}               You and your friends are above the law. The narrower the area this works in, the more potent it is.
  [Cybernetic Adaptation]{.CharOverride-7}       You gain two integration points for adding cybernetics. Starting mortals get cyber to fill these points.
  [Desperate Strike]{.CharOverride-7}            Commit Effort for the day to automatically hit with an attack on anything but a natural 1.
  [Diehard Will]{.CharOverride-7}                Keep fighting for a round after losing all your hit points. Take longer to bleed out afterwards.
  [Expert Thief]{.CharOverride-7}                For stealth and thieving activities, roll any attribute checks twice and take the better result.
  [Extra Effort]{.CharOverride-7}                You gain one additional maximum Effort.
  [Flurry of Blows]{.CharOverride-7}             When you take an attack action, you get two attack rolls. You must be 5th level to take this talent.
  [Hardened Combatant]{.CharOverride-7}          Instead of being +0, your base attack bonus is equal to your level.
  [Influential]{.CharOverride-7}                 You have maximum Influence equal to your level, albeit you can only talk people into Plausible acts.
  [Know the Type]{.CharOverride-7}               Pick a social class or profession; you can always find a friendly one of them where they congregate.
  [Legacy: Arctic Adaptation]{.CharOverride-7}   Ignore environmental cold and see heat as if with infrared vision out to your normal sight range.
  [Legacy: Desert Adaptation]{.CharOverride-7}   Ignore environmental heat and cold, drink once a month, and ignore flames smaller than a bonfire.
  [Legacy: Inherited Prowess]{.CharOverride-7}   Increase an attribute to 16, or to 18 if it\'s already 16 or higher. Common mortals can take this once.
  [Legacy: Mindspeech]{.CharOverride-7}          Gain short-range telepathic communication with friends or people you can see.
  [Legacy: Natural Weapon]{.CharOverride-7}      You have a retractable natural weapon that does 1d8, or an unconcealable one that does 1d10.
  [Legacy: Tough Hide]{.CharOverride-7}          Your natural armor class is 5. You benefit from shields, but not from light or medium armor.
  [Legacy: Void Adaptation]{.CharOverride-7}     You don\'t need to eat, breathe, or drink so long as you get sun. You ignore deep space conditions.
  [Legacy: Water Adaptation]{.CharOverride-7}    You can breathe, see, and move freely in water, and ignore the sea\'s cold and pressure.
  [Lesser Old-School Ability]{.CharOverride-7}   Pick a class ability from a character class in an old-school game and gain it at your level.
  [Lesser Strife Training]{.CharOverride-7}      Master one level of a lesser Strife: initiate, disciple, or master.
  [Low Magic Training]{.CharOverride-7}          Master one level of a low magic tradition: apprentice, adept, or master. You can\'t be an archmage.
  [Nine Lives]{.CharOverride-7}                  Once per day, block or evade a physical attack that would reduce you to zero hit points.
  [Parallel Life]{.CharOverride-7}               You have an alter-ego with a separate identity that\'s unconnected to you.
  [Professional Expertise]{.CharOverride-7}      Pick a profession. All attribute checks related to that trade are rolled twice, and the better roll used.
  [Sacred Steel]{.CharOverride-7}                Your attacks count as magic weapons. Pick a class of supernatural foe and gain +1 to hit/damage.
  [Skilled First Aid]{.CharOverride-7}           Heal 1 point of damage on yourself or allies immediately after being injured.
  [Storm of Blows]{.CharOverride-7}              As Flurry of Blows, but it grants three attacks. You must be 9th level and have Flurry of Blows.
  [Swift to Act]{.CharOverride-7}                You get a second full action every turn, allowing you to move and attack twice. You must be 9th level.
  [Toughness]{.CharOverride-7}                   Common mortals get 1 bonus hit point every odd-numbered level. Heroic ones get one each level.
  [Vancian Caster]{.CharOverride-7}              This special talent gives access to an old-school spellcasting class\' spell list. See special rules for it.
  [Wealthy]{.CharOverride-7}                     You\'re rich, and can afford anything that costs 1 Wealth or less. Spend more once per game session.
  ---------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer274 .Text-Frame}
Heroic Talents

[Adept of the Gate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You are capable of using theurgic
Invocations of the Gate. You must be an archmage of at least one low
magic tradition to take this talent. If you cast a theurgic invocation
in a round, it must be your only action, and casting the spell too
quickly can result in damage as per the usual rules for fast-cast
invocations. You may pick three invocations of the Gate to know when you
take this talent. Others must be learned through exploration or
teaching.

[Adept of the Throne:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You have mastered all that a
human can know of theurgy. You must be at least tenth level and an Adept
of the Way to take this talent. You learn one invocation of the Throne
as part of your initiation. Other invocations must be acquired from
other sources.

[Adept of the Way:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You are capable of using theurgic
Invocations of the Way. You must be at least sixth level and have the
Adept of the Gate talent. When you take this talent, you learn two
invocations of the Gate as part of your initiation. Others must be
learned normally.

[Heroic Alacrity:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You must be at least fifth level to
take this talent, which allows you to take a second full action each
round immediately after your first. Powers or talents that grant
multiple attacks don\'t apply to any attack made with this second
action. This talent doesn\'t stack with any other extra-action power,
including Swift to Act or The Storm Breaks from the Alacrity Word.

[Heroic Flurry of Blows:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You gain an automatic second
attack at fifth level, and an automatic third attack at ninth level,
both applicable whenever you take an attack action. These bonus attacks
can\'t be modified by powers that multiply attacks, though the original
attack can. Thus, a power that doubles attacks would grant 3 attacks at
5th level; one bonus, plus the doubled original. This talent does not
stack with the common talents Flurry of Blows or Storm of Blows.

[Heroic Old-School Ability:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This special talent can
only be taken with the GM\'s permission. The mortal gains one class
ability or special perk from another class of their choice drawn from
another old-school game. Repelling Undead, a knight\'s ability to heal
with their touch, monastic disease immunity or the like may be selected.
Spellcasting powers may not; choose Heroic Vancian Caster instead in
that case. Unlike Lesser Old-School Ability, however, the PC can pick
any class ability, even one that requires a higher level than they have
at present. For abilities that grow stronger with level, treat the PC as
10th level, or the minimum required for the power, whichever is greater.

[Heroic Vancian Caster:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This special talent may only be
taken if the GM is including spell lists from other old-school games in
their campaign. Consult the special rules for it in this section.

[Innate Gift:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Whether through transhuman modification
or sheer amazing talent, you have a single lesser gift from a Word that
complements your character\'s nature, one representing your special
ability. A heroic mortal may not take this talent more than once for
every three character levels they\'ve earned, rounded up.

[Legacy/Natural Power:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Your abnormal magical talent or
ancient altered bloodline has gifted you with a power equivalent to that
of a lesser gift. Pick one from any Word or design your own with the
GM\'s approval. Unlike Innate Gift, you may take this talent only once.

[Lesser Strife Mastery:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You\'ve obtained mastery of all
three levels of a lesser Strife of your choice.

[Lethal Presence:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You gain a 1d6 Fray die representing
your casual blows, absently-hurled weapons, or short sprays of arcane
energy if you are a spellcaster. This die can be applied only to lesser
foes.

[Low Magic Archmage:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You become an archmage in a low
magic tradition in which you are already a master, after having taken
the Low Magic Training talent three times.

[Natural Defenses:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Whether through luck, agility,
magical blessings, or transhuman alteration, your base armor class is 3.
You get no benefit from wearing armor of an equal or worse AC, but
shields still help you.

[True Strife Training:]{.Bolded-Run-In} You gain one gift point to spend
on a True Strife for which you\'ve already mastered the corresponding
lesser strife. Thus, you could learn the initial gift of a new True
Strife, or two of the median gifts, or master the final gift in the
sequence. Alternately, you can spend this point to integrate the secrets
of the Strife, allowing you to mix its abilities with all other Strifes
which you have mastered.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer275 .Single-Column}
  ---------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Heroic Talents                                 Benefits of the Talent
  [Adept of the Gate]{.CharOverride-7}           You can use theurgy of the Gate. You must be an archmage of a low magic tradition to take this.
  [Adept of the Throne]{.CharOverride-7}         You can use theurgy of the Throne, but must be tenth level and an adept of the Way to take this.
  [Adept of the Way]{.CharOverride-7}            You can use theurgy of the Way, but must be at least sixth level and an adept of the Gate to take this.
  [Heroic Alacrity]{.CharOverride-7}             You get a second full action each round, moving and acting twice. You must be at least fifth level.
  [Heroic Flurry of Blows]{.CharOverride-7}      You get extra attacks at fifth and ninth levels, and you can Commit Effort for the scene for another.
  [Heroic Old-School Ability]{.CharOverride-7}   With the GM\'s permission, pick an ability from another old-school class, taking one from any level.
  [Heroic Vancian Caster]{.CharOverride-7}       Gain mighty spellcasting powers from an old-school spellcaster\'s list, with the GM\'s permission.
  [Innate Gift]{.CharOverride-7}                 You may pick a lesser gift that fits your Facts. You can take this talent once per three levels, rounded up.
  [Legacy: Natural Power]{.CharOverride-7}       You may pick a lesser gift that fits your Facts. You can only take this talent once.
  [Lesser Strife Mastery]{.CharOverride-7}       You\'ve fully mastered a lesser Strife. Heroic mortals only need this talent to completely learn the art.
  [Lethal Presence]{.CharOverride-7}             You gain a 1d6 Fray die which you can use against lesser foes.
  [Low Magic Archmage]{.CharOverride-7}          You\'re an archmage of a low magic tradition. You must be a master of it before you can take this.
  [Natural Defenses]{.CharOverride-7}            Your base armor class is 3. You benefit from shields, but not from armor.
  [True Strife Training]{.CharOverride-7}        You have one gift point to spend on learning a True Strife. You must master its lesser Strife first.
  ---------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer276 .Text-Frame}
The Vancian Caster Talents

To accommodate groups that want to include the classic spellcasting and
lists of incantations from existing old-school games, the Vancian Caster
talents are available for PCs. It is by no means mandatory to allow a PC
to take these abilities; if they don\'t fit the campaign flavor or if
the GM decides they don\'t match the PC\'s background or experience then
they need not be approved.

A PC who takes the common Vancian Caster talent gains access to one
spell level of a spell list of their choice. Thus, a PC who takes the
common talent might decide to get access to first level spells from the
cleric spell list of their favorite retroclone. The common Vancian
Caster talent can\'t grant access to a spell level higher than half the
PC\'s level, rounded up, and each spell level must be opened in order.
Thus, to get access to second level magic-user spells, the PC must be at
least 3rd level and have taken Vancian Caster twice.

The PC uses the spell preparation and casting rules of the spell list\'s
corresponding class for a character of their level. Thus, a second level
PC who had access to first level cleric spells would prepare and cast
them as if she were a second level cleric. As she rises in character
level, she\'s able to prepare more spells, but she can\'t prepare spells
of a level she hasn\'t opened with a corresponding purchase of Vancian
Caster. Thus, even though she might reach 5th level, it doesn\'t mean
she can cast third level cleric spells without having taken Vancian
Caster three times to open that level of clerical magic.

The table below lists how many spells of each opened spell level a hero
can prepare and cast each day, using the preparation and casting rules
from the game the spell list came from. If the spell list is meant for a
spontaneous-casting class that can hurl any spell they know, decrease
the caster\'s effective level by one for purposes of spell preparation,
to a minimum of level one. The resultant number on the table is the
number of spells of that level they can cast per day. Double it to find
out how many spells of that level they can learn and have available for
casting.

The Heroic Vancian Caster talent works almost exactly the same as the
common Vancian Caster talent but its function differs in two ways.
First, it can open a spell level no higher than the hero\'s full
character level, and second, the hero is treated as [twice their
level]{.CharOverride-2} for purposes of preparing and casting spells
from that list. Thus, a ninth-level hero who\'d taken Heroic Vancian
Caster five times to open up fifth level cleric spells could then take
Heroic Vancian Caster to master the sixth level of clerical spells and
prepare and cast all such spells as if he were an 18th level cleric.
Heroic Vancian Caster doesn\'t stack with the common Vancian Caster
talent, and there\'s no reason for a heroic mortal to bother with the
lesser ability.

If a PC takes the Vancian Caster talent for spells from more than one
list, they gain access to both, but don\'t increase their total number
of spells to be prepared each day. Thus, a third level PC who had access
to first level spells from both the magic-user and cleric classes would
still only be able to prepare two first level spells per day, albeit
they could choose from any spells they knew from either class. If one
spell list is for a spontaneously-casting class and the other is a spell
list that is prepared beforehand, the caster has the fewer slots of a
spontaneous caster, but can choose to fill some of them with prepared
spells from the appropriate list.

If the spell list usually requires that its practitioners earn or find
the spells on the list, such as the usual requirements for building up a
wizard\'s spell book, the PC must do so. When they open the first level
of that spell list, they can pick four spells from the list to know from
the start, and may pick one more from an opened spell level each time
they advance a level. Spells they find as treasure or which are which
are taught to them by friendly NPCs may be added to their available
choices as usual.

The Old-School Ability Talents

For some campaigns, it might be appropriate to cherry-pick special
abilities or talents from existing old-school games. A player might want
druidic shapeshifting talents, for example, or a heroic knight\'s
immunity to fear, or the special weapons tricks of some niche class. The
Old-School Ability talents allow them to pick such graces.

The Lesser Old-School Talent lets a PC pick an ability from any class,
provided it\'s available at their current character\'s level. Thus, if a
class gains a special power at 3rd level, the PC must be at least 3rd
level to take the power. The Heroic Old-School Ability does not have
this limitation. Any power can be chosen, though if it\'s an ability
that gets stronger as the PC advances in level, their effective level
for it is treated as the minimum necessary plus their character level.
Thus, if a 5th level hero took a power that started to become available
at 9th level in the source game, they\'d be treated as an effective
level 14 for purposes of determining the power\'s effectiveness.

It\'s up to the GM to decide what constitutes a class power and whether
or not the PC should be allowed to take it. If the PC takes an ability
that has its own unique mechanics, such as the thief abilities of an
old-school rogue, the GM can decide to either just use those mechanics
straight or translate them to automatic attribute check successes in
some cases, or +4 to really difficult attempts. Don\'t worry too much
about fine balance. A quivering palm attack is nice, but it\'s not going
to trivialize the kind of foes they\'ll meet in the world.

Classed Mortals

Some players might want to go all the way, and just use a character
class from an existing old-school game. In most cases, this can be done
without great difficulty.

-   Common mortals who take a class can\'t take talents. They get Facts
    as they advance in level normally, but their abilities are those of
    the class. Heroic mortals can choose only one relevant talent at
    first level and one talent at each odd level thereafter. It\'s
    assumed that classed mortals will start play that way; if they take
    a class later in life, they lose any excess earlier talents.
-   A common mortal\'s starting hit points depend on the die the class
    rolls to determine its hit points. Classes that roll 1d4 or 1d6
    start with one hit point, those that roll 1d8 or 1d10 start with two
    hit points, and those that roll 1d12 or multiple dice start with
    three hit points. Heroic mortals start with half the maximum hit
    point roll for the class. In both cases, the totals are modified by
    Constitution as usual.
-   When a common mortal gains a level, they get their usual one
    additional hit point. When a heroic mortal gains a level, they get a
    quarter of the class\' maximum roll, rounded down, modified by half
    their Constitution, rounded up.
-   Saving throws and attribute checks are determined normally as per
    [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} rules. If the class has a special bonus
    on certain types of saving throws, such as +2 to resist poison, this
    applies to relevant saving throw rolls.
-   The PC\'s base attack bonus is equal to 20 minus whatever the class
    needs to roll to hit armor class 0. Thus, if a first level fighter
    needs to roll a 19 or better to hit AC 0, the PC\'s starting attack
    bonus is +1. This bonus is recalculated as the character advances in
    levels and has an easier time hitting AC 0.
-   A mortal gains class abilities, spellcasting, multiple attacks, and
    other class powers as normal for a character of their level. Heroic
    mortals can apply the Heroic Vancian Casting talent to a
    spellcasting class\' powers to double their effective level for
    purposes of spell preparation and casting, though the ability has no
    other effect on a classed PC\'s spellcasting powers.
-   If the class has special powers and abilities that use their own
    special system for resolution, such as an old-school thief\'s
    lockpicking abilities, the GM may decide to just treat such attempts
    as an attribute check with a +4 bonus for a relevant Fact, or they
    may choose to use the system as written. Some abilities might just
    grant automatic success if used in low-pressure situations.
-   While the mortal gains all the benefits and abilities of the class,
    they also gain the limitations. Some classes might not be permitted
    to use particular types of weapons, or might be restricted from
    heavy armor. It\'s up to the GM to decide on particular cases.

Some rough edges are inevitable when adding an old-school class to a
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} mortal, and it\'s up to the group to come up
with interpretations that seem reasonable to all involved.

Mortal Advancement and Leveling

Mortals start at the first level of experience and gain further levels
exactly as Godbound do, by overcoming challenges and accomplishing
goals. Unlike Godbound, they don\'t need to spend Dominion to advance a
level, and indeed, they\'re incapable of accruing Dominion at all.

When a mortal PC gains a level, they gain the following benefits.

-   Common mortals increase their maximum hit points by one, with no
    Constitution modifier. Heroic mortals increase their maximum hit
    points by two, modified by half their Constitution modifier, rounded
    up.
-   Each saving throw goes down by one. Thus, if the PC had a Hardiness
    saving throw of 14, it becomes 13. Attribute modifiers then apply to
    this base score just as they would for Godbound.
-   The mortal may add a new Fact related to their achievements over the
    past level, training they\'ve received during that time, or
    relationships they\'ve built with others.
-   The mortal may add a new talent related to one of their Facts,
    including the Fact they\'ve just chosen. Common mortals can only
    pick from the common talent list, while heroic mortals can pick from
    both the common and heroic talent lists.
-   Heroic mortals gain one maximum Effort at every even-numbered level,
    such as levels 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10. Common mortals never gain more
    maximum Effort, barring special talents.

Mortals usually have a maximum level of 10, much as Godbound do. If a
hard-bitten mortal somehow manages to push beyond this level, they
continue to gain all the benefits of their advancement, though their
base saving throw scores can\'t improve beyond 5 or better before
applying their attribute modifiers.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker360}Mortal
Injury and Healing

Mortals take longer to recuperate from injury and stress than Godbound
heroes do. While hit point loss doesn\'t always mean that the victim was
physically harmed, the exhaustion, strain, and accumulated dark omens of
constant fighting can take a toll on a mortal that can require a long
period of recuperation to ease. Just as mortals take longer to recover
their hurts than Godbound do, they\'re also much more fragile when given
a serious wound.

Both common and heroic mortals heal at the rate of one hit point per
good night\'s rest. If they spend the day relaxing, carousing, or
otherwise disporting themselves with careless pleasure, they can recover
an additional hit point. An uninterrupted week of reveling, indulging,
or resting is sufficient to heal all lost hit points for any mortal.

If a common mortal is reduced to zero hit points, however, they have
been mortally wounded and will die 1d6 rounds later unless an ally is
able to spend a round\'s action succeeding at a Dexterity or
Intelligence attribute check to plug their spurting wounds. Heroic
mortals last longer, and will die at the end of the scene if left
untreated. Both common and heroic mortals require 1d6 months of
recuperation to recover from such brushes with death. They will always
bear some sort of scar or mutilation from the injury, though it\'s
rarely hindering to a PC. Any amount of magical healing will put a
mortal back on their feet immediately with no lasting scars or
debilitated recovery period.

Mortal Bonus Actions and Attacks

Godbound are forced to manipulate and direct tremendous forces, powers
so great that it is very difficult for them to respond as quickly as
some mayfly mortal hero. Unlike most Godbound, there are certain ways
for any experienced mortal to gain extra actions in a round or extra
attacks when making an attack action. Several talents grant these
benefits, and there are a number of old-school spells that also boost a
hero\'s agility. These special perks have their limits.

[Powers, gifts, or spells that multiply a subject\'s actions multiply
only the target\'s original action. ]{.CharOverride-3}Thus, if a hero
had the Heroic Alacrity talent that granted them a bonus action each
round, a spell of quickness that doubled their actions would leave them
with a total of three per round; their doubled base action, plus the
bonus one granted by Heroic Alacrity. If the hero somehow triggered an
Alacrity Word power that granted him an extra action during the round,
he\'d have four actions, as the bonus would not be doubled by the spell.

[Bonus attacks are never multiplied by gifts or
spells.]{.CharOverride-3} A heroic mortal with the Heroic Flurry of
Blows talent might also learn a True Strife technique that allows him to
triple his attacks under certain situations. This multiplier would be
applied only to his base attack, with the extra blows granted by Heroic
Flurry of Blows added on top of that. Under no circumstances would he be
tripling his entire allotment of attacks.

These limits are important. Ignoring them doesn\'t make too much
difference at low levels, before the mortal heroes have started stacking
on bonus attacks, but a careless GM who allows veteran mortal heroes to
multiply their bonus actions and attacks can find the party laying down
a withering hail of fire that swiftly defeats foes that ought to be much
more of a challenge. Worse, it can encourage players to build characters
specifically designed to maximize the number of attacks they get each
round, locking these optimizers into a golden cage.

Godbound Gaining Talents

As a general rule, Godbound shouldn\'t be taking mortal talents. Almost
everything a talent does, a gift can do better, or else the Godbound\'s
intrinsic abilities are already as good. There are a few nuances to this
general rule, however.

Talents that grant extra actions or extra attacks should be entirely
restricted to mortals. Their existence is the one way that non-Godbound
have the slightest chance to obstruct a Godbound in combat. A legendary
hero with 35 hit points, two actions and three attacks per action, and a
+16 attack bonus from Hardened Combatant, 18 Strength, and a +3 magic
sword in hand, might [possibly]{.CharOverride-2} threaten a veteran
Godbound. An entire party of such heroes is a serious problem for a god,
and that\'s how it ought to be when a realm\'s mightiest mortals try to
face down a renegade divinity.

Talents that boost Effort, hit points, attributes, or other character
scores should also be restricted to mortals. The value of an extra point
of Effort is much higher to a Godbound than a mortal who has far fewer
ways to commit it, and if you let Godbound dedicate Facts to obtaining
talents many of them will find the mechanical bonuses and side perks to
be irresistibly tempting.

The one usual case where a Godbound should be permitted to dedicate
Facts to learning talents is when it\'s a matter of organizational
benefits or training. If all the knights of the Pavian Order of Ancalia
gain certain benefits from membership, then it\'s reasonable to let the
Godbound get them too, if they\'re a Pavian knight. A single Godbound
Fact dedicated to this should gain all the benefits of the training or
organization, even if mortals need several talents to do so.

Mortals Becoming Godbound

A GM might plan for a campaign where the PCs begin as ordinary mortals,
only to rise to the might of true Godbound during play. There are two
general ways to approach this.

In the first, the GM just wants to run a \"prelude\" with the PCs
playing mortals only for a session or two before bonding to the Words.
If you want to run a campaign like this, it\'s best to use the normal
Godbound character creation guidelines, but omit picking Words or gifts
until the PC awakens to their power. They won\'t be spending a lot of
time as plain mortals, so there\'s no need to generate them as such.

In the second, the GM wants to run a fairly extensive campaign, with
Godbound awakening being an ultimate reward for the PCs once they reach
a certain character level, probably around fifth or sixth if they don\'t
want to spend too much of the likely campaign lifespan as mortals. In
this case, the GM should run the PCs through whatever common or heroic
mortal character creation they wish and let them play normally until
they reach the requisite pitch of accomplishment.

Then, turn them into Godbound of a level equal to half their mortal
level, rounded down. They lose their talents and get the hit points of a
Godbound of their level. Their maximum Facts are now those of a Godbound
of that level. Dropped Facts may still be real truths about them, of
course, but give no attribute check bonus or special perks.

In most realms of the fallen world, anyone can awaken as a Godbound. One
need not be a hero, or a genius, or even particularly competent. The
blind blessings of the Words seem to fall at random, and their
recipients can sometimes be drastically unsuited to their newfound
power. In your campaign, however, you might change things so that the
Words only descend on truly worthy paragons. The difference is apt to be
minimal, save that Godbound PCs will then have been some kind of
impressive person even before their awakening.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker361}Old-School
Healing Spells and Powers

Some old-school classes and spell lists offer healing spells, or class
abilities that provide healing. These require a little tweaking to fit
with [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}, since the spells were meant to heal
creatures that had a lot more hit points than
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} creatures have hit dice. With that in mind,
these effects use to special rules.

[Old-school healing rolls its healing dice on the damage table, and
heals that many hit dice or hit points. ]{.CharOverride-3}Thus, a
curative spell that mends 1d6+1 hit points in the original game will
cure 1 to 2 hit dice or hit points in Godbound. One that heals 3d8 will
cure between 0 and 6. If the healing does a flat amount of curing, then
every 4 old-school hit points cured mends one point of damage, down to a
minimum of one point fixed if the healer can\'t muster a full four HP of
healing.

[Godbound need to Commit Effort for the day to benefit from old-school
healing effects. Mortals do not. ]{.CharOverride-3}Old-school healing
powers are sharply limited in almost all cases. A cleric has only so
many spell slots of healing, and other classes have only so much juice.
Obliging mortals to also Commit Effort to benefit from these effects
makes them much less useful to the poor, frail creatures. Godbound, on
the other hand, don\'t have a hard time marshaling a crew of dedicated
healers if they find it convenient, and letting them soak up such
curative powers without Committing Effort would be too great a benefit
for them.

If healing is scarce enough in your campaign that a Godbound is never
going to be able to simply enlist a coterie of their own priests to
patch them up on demand, then you might allow them to receive healing
normally from limited-use spells and powers. Just be careful that the
group doesn\'t end up finding such mortal healers mandatory.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer277 .Single-Column}
<table id="table419" class="No-Table-Style TableOverride-1">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td rowspan="2" class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Caster</p>
<p>Level</p></td>
<td colspan="9" class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Spell
Levels</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>6</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>7</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>8</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">1</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">2</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">3</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">4</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">5</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">6</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">7</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">8</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">9</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">10</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">11</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">12</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">13</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">14</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">15</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">16</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>-</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">17</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">18</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">19</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">20+</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer278 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker362}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor187}Cybernetics
and Clockworks

While the many lands of Arcem operate largely on a Renaissance or late
medieval level of technology, some societies have melded magic and
technical artifice to create cybernetic modifications that can vastly
improve a mortal hero's capabilities. While these augmentations are of
most use to ordinary human operatives, some Godbound might also have
implants, either as a legacy of their mortal lives or as an improvement
their divine wisdom has seen fit to make.

Sources of Cybernetics

There are only two major powers in Arcem that can offer cybernetic
augmentations to the rich and influential. One of them is the island
nation of the Bright Republic, which has a highly-advanced theotechnical
civilization that is capable of producing miniaturized cybernetic
implants for the wealthy. Some of these implants can even be "hardened"
to function away from the island's etheric power nodes, though most of
the tech only works while on the island. Many of the agents of the
island's Special Resources Division have cybernetic implants to improve
their utility to their patrons.

Vissian maestros are also adept in the creation of clockwork prosthetics
that function in much the same way as Republican cybertech. These
clockworks are often baroque and beautifully-ornamented, but they work
throughout the realm and require no power source.

In both lands, cybernetics are uncommon and a sign of both money and
great personal importance. Minor cosmetic surgery on a par with modern
Earth medical standards is common enough, but a brass arm that functions
as well as a living one or a skin made of polished steel will always
draw whispers from the common folk.

In both lands, strictly offensive cyberware such as springblades,
implanted arm weaponry, or Gorgon Stare oculars are illegal for
civilians to possess. Also in both lands, the right friends or the right
permits can be acquired to allow virtually anything to be implanted in
anyone.

Implanting Cyber

Adding cybernetic or clockwork augmentations to a human always comes at
a cost. The integration is never perfect, and there are always
side-effects, subtle neural damage, and spiritual maladies brought down
by the intimate association of inanimate matter and living flesh. Adding
cyber to a human requires that they have a sufficient number of free
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker363}[integration
points]{.CharOverride-3} to support the mod and a free slot in the body
part the mod occupies.

Integration points measure the subject's ability to integrate with the
cyberware. Without enough integration points to support the mod, it's
useless, and cannot be effectively controlled. Godbound gain integration
points by permanently sacrificing Effort, as the loss of their divine
substance and the introduction of this crude substitute matter hinders
their control of their own celestial powers. Each point of maximum
Effort permanently sacrificed grants them four integration points they
can commit to cybernetic mods.

This loss of maximum Effort also applies to most other NPCs who have
Effort scores, assuming the GM wants to bother tracking it. If the GM is
running a campaign with human mortal PCs, however, the heroes may want
to have some cyberware of their own, but lack the Effort to sacrifice.
In that case, and for mortal PCs only, the hero may sacrifice a point of
attribute modifier to gain three integration points. The attribute score
is then lowered to the highest possible score for the next lowest
modifier. Thus, a hero with an Intelligence of 11 and an Intelligence
modifier of +0 might choose to sacrifice a point of that, lowering his
Intelligence to 8 and giving it a -1 modifier in exchange for three
integration points. This can be done as often as the hero is willing to
sacrifice, but it cannot be reversed afterwards. Mortal PCs only can
also take the Cybernetic Adaptation talent to gain points.

Assuming the hero has the points to implant a new piece of cyber, they
also need a free slot to put it in. Most cyber is implanted in one of
seven slots: arms, body, brain, left hand, right hand, eyes, or legs.
Each slot can normally hold only one piece of cyber, so once the hero
implants something in their left hand, no new cyber can fit into that
same limb. Arm and leg implants always take up both limbs. A few mods
have no slot requirements and don't take up precious slot space.

If a hero decides to change their cyber loadout, they may remove old
pieces of tech, regaining the spent integration points and slot space,
and replace it with new tech. Effort or attribute modifiers committed to
integration points can never be reclaimed; the loss is permanent.

Bright Republic cyber requires a skilled surgical team and a
fully-appointed medical clinic to implant. Vissian clockwork requires
only one maestro and a workshop. Both require money; cyberware costs
twice its points in Wealth to purchase, assuming a seller can be found.
Such cyberware is magically hardened for use throughout the realm. If
cyber that only works in the Bright Republic is adequate, the Wealth
cost is halved.

Creating New Cyberware

If a GM is running a particularly mortal-heavy campaign with many mortal
PC heroes, it's quite likely that there will be a demand for new
cyberware, either as additional offerings from existing sources or as
newly-built tech.

When deciding what the new cyberware should be capable of, restrict it
to relatively modest effects. None of it should be as good as a Constant
gift, though it might produce effects that automatically subdue or kill
lesser foes, and it might be able to match a lesser gift's effects for
short periods, under specific circumstances, or at a substantial cost in
the user's hit points or Effort to power it.

Use the slot system to prevent excessive hardware stacking. Only give a
piece of cyberware the "No Slot" location if you're fine with it being
stacked together with other No Slot gear. The Miniaturized Components
mod can be used to get around some slot limits, but the high point cost
means that it's a major investment for a user.

Use the point cost to grade cyberware's utility. One-point cyberware
should be narrow in effect or limited in benefit, while three-point
cyberware should do the biggest tricks that cyber can do. Most Godbound
will be limited to 4 or 8 points of cyber unless they seriously deplete
their maximum Effort scores, so use that as a yardstick.

For Godbound artificers that want to devise new cyber, work with them to
make sure that their desired hardware is actually an allowable piece of
tech. Tech that only works or is only useful for plain mortals can
afford to be more effective than mods that a Godbound might pick up.

Once that's settled, treat it as an Improbable or Impossible Influence
project with a scope depending on the number of minions he wants to
equip with the tech. Usually this is no more than a Village or
Region-scale effort. Replicating existing cyber is usually Improbable.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer279 .Single-Column}
  ------------------------------------------------ -------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Cyberware                                        Points   Slot          Effects
  [Arm Rams]{.CharOverride-7}                      1        Arms          Break down doors, window bars, or wooden walls
  [Contractive Launch Boost]{.CharOverride-7}      1        Arms          Hurl weapons up to 200 feet away, with a bonus to hit and damage
  [Duplicate Arms]{.CharOverride-7}                2        Arms          Add a second pair of arms under your first set
  [Implanted Arm Weaponry]{.CharOverride-7}        1        Arms          Conceal a rifle-sized weapon inside an arm
  [Inexorable Targeting Link]{.CharOverride-7}     1        Arms          Once per scene, automatically hit with a physical attack
  [Full-Body Hardening]{.CharOverride-7}           2        Body          Gain a base AC of 0, though with no Dexterity modifier or touch
  [Internal Purity Seals]{.CharOverride-7}         1        Body          Gain immunity to mundane diseases and toxins
  [Redundant Organ Implants]{.CharOverride-7}      2        Body          Add two extra hit points per character level, or 25% more hit dice
  [Slow Shield Generator]{.CharOverride-7}         2        Body          Fast projectiles and melee attacks do one fewer points of damage
  [Warded Skin]{.CharOverride-7}                   1        Body          Gain a base AC of 4 that's hard to notice outside combat
  [Auspicious Linguistic Array]{.CharOverride-7}   1        Brain         Speak, read, and write any human language you may encounter
  [Clarity Mandala]{.CharOverride-7}               2        Brain         Automatically resist non-divine mind control effects, at a cost
  [Eidolon Control Node]{.CharOverride-7}          3        Brain         Your body keeps operating even after you hit zero hit points
  [Memory Vault]{.CharOverride-7}                  1        Brain         Seal away memories where mind-probes can't detect them
  [Grip of Unseen Force]{.CharOverride-7}          1        Either Hand   Gain short-range telekinesis that can be used as a shield
  [Springblade]{.CharOverride-7}                   1        Either Hand   A concealed 1d8 weapon that automatically hits from ambush
  [The Red Dot of Condemnation]{.CharOverride-7}   1        Either Hand   Tag a target to know their location for the rest of the scene
  [Thousand-Fingered Hand]{.CharOverride-7}        1        Either Hand   Your hand now serves as any one-handed weapon or implement
  [Thundering Fist]{.CharOverride-7}               1        Either Hand   Hurl 1d8 lightning attacks up to 30 feet, killing or stunning foes
  [Agate Eyes]{.CharOverride-7}                    1        Eyes          See perfectly in the dark
  [Gorgon Stare]{.CharOverride-7}                  2        Eyes          Kill lesser foes with a glare or harm greater foes, at some cost
  [Malocchio Implants]{.CharOverride-7}            1        Eyes          Curse targets with the evil eye, forcing a reroll on a success
  [Piercing Gaze]{.CharOverride-7}                 2        Eyes          See through up to a foot of solid matter as an action
  [Autocossack Conversion]{.CharOverride-7}        3        Legs          Replace your lower body with a mechanical centauroid half
  [Gecko Augmentation]{.CharOverride-7}            1        Legs          Cross vertical walls and ceilings so long as you keep moving
  [Hummingbird Heels]{.CharOverride-7}             1        Legs          Fly briefly at a cost, or hover unmoving and ignore falling damage
  [Skitterback Projector]{.CharOverride-7}         2        Legs          Once per scene, teleport 500 feet to a visible or known location
  [Tread of Tireless Return]{.CharOverride-7}      1        Legs          Your legs move without tiring and can carry you to a destination
  [Cosmetic Augmentation]{.CharOverride-7}         1        No Slot       Rework your body to any humanoid form that pleases you
  [Micronized Ward Weaves]{.CharOverride-7}        3        No Slot       Increase the Effort needed to use gifts around you, for mortals only
  [Miniaturized Components]{.CharOverride-7}       2        No Slot       Miniaturize a cyber implant, freeing up its slot for another mod
  [Prosthetic Limb]{.CharOverride-7}               1        No Slot       Replace a missing limb with a serviceable equivalent
  [Resonant Echo Cavity]{.CharOverride-7}          1        No Slot       Forge telepathic contact with up to three willing allies
  [Spelltrap Contingency]{.CharOverride-7}         2        No Slot       Store a low magic spell in a cell for later willing or contingent use
  ------------------------------------------------ -------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer280 .Text-Frame}
The cyberware list given above is simply a collection of some of the
more common ware available in the Bright Republic or the Vissian
city-states. All of it exists in both Republican cybertech and Vissian
clockwork versions which operate identically, though they might look
very different on their users.

The Points column lists the number of integration points the mod takes
up. A subject can't have more points of cyber than they have available
integration points, which Godbound get by sacrificing maximum Effort and
ordinary mortal PCs can gain by permanently sacrificing points of
attribute modifiers. The Slot entry lists the body slot the mod
occupies. No slot can handle more than one mod at a time.

Availability of this cyber will vary depending on the realm. Some worlds
may not have it available at all. On Arcem, both the Bright Republic and
Vissio have publicly-known cybertech clinics or clockwork ateliers that
will do the work for well-regarded patrons or their servants.
Black-market clinics and hidden maestros may not be so particular about
their clients.

The Wealth cost for buying a piece of cyberware is equal to twice its
point cost. If a person is buying Republic cyberware and has no need for
it to function off the island, they can get away with paying only half
price to omit the "hardening" required for use away from the isle.
Inactive cyber won't kill the user, but it won't function either.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer281 .Text-Frame}
Cyberware Descriptions

[Agate Eyes:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Carved gemstones replace the user's eyes,
allowing them to see with perfect clarity in complete darkness.

[Arm Rams:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Both arms are augmented and hardened, with
springs or etheric batteries to provide short boosts of tremendous
force. While the bursts are unsuitable for combat, the arms can break
through even heavy doors, window bars, wooden walls, or similar
barriers, creating a human-sized hole as a single round's action.
Researchers have attempted to build similar augments for a user's legs,
but are restrained by the strong mythopoeic sympathy of arms with
strength.

[Auspicious Linguistic Array:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The implantation of
certain minor spirits of knowledge along the interior of the user's
cranial cavity grant them an instinctive ability to read, write, and
speak any human language they may encounter.

[Autocossack Conversion:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The subject's entire lower
body is removed and replaced with a four-legged platform much like that
of a centaur. Some models are made to appear like that of a living
horse, while others seem entirely clockwork or mechanical. The subject's
base movement becomes 90' per move and they can carry the weight of a
rider and their gear without being slowed. They also get an additional
free Body slot for additional cyberware to represent their now-larger
torso space, and a bonus 2 hit dice to their maximum.

[Clarity Mandala:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user may expend one hit point or
hit die to automatically resist any mind-affecting magic or effect
directed against them, provided it is not the product of a Word or other
divine gift. A clarity mandala can trigger even on effects too subtle to
be noticed by a target, but if the user doesn't activate it on the
warning they immediately forget its discovery. The resistance a clarity
mandala provides is only for that one instance of the power. Repeated
targeting must be resisted separately.

[Contractive Launch Boost:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user's arms are altered
to provide a sudden, violent burst of force. All thrown weapons gain a
200 foot range and a minimum 1d6 damage die for anything pebble-sized or
larger. Weapons that already have an equal or better damage die gain a
+1 damage bonus that doesn\'t stack with gift-boosted attacks.

[Cosmetic Augmentation:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Expert cosmetic surgeons or
inspired maestros can mold flesh and bone into exotic or aesthetic
shapes. While minor cosmetic surgery is available in the Bright Republic
or Vissio, this level of complete reconstruction is available only to
the richest and best-connected---or to their favorite playthings. These
augmentations do not change the subject's actual attribute scores, but
can make them appear exactly like another human no more than 20% larger
or smaller than their original shape. Gender alterations, body
sculpting, dramatic coloring or small additional appendages can all be
added by sufficiently artful sculptors. Once performed, however, this
modification cannot be undone. New shapes can be molded in place of old
ones, but the integration point committed to it can never be withdrawn,
even if their old shape is restored.

[Duplicate Arms:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A second set of arms, tentacles, or
other manipulatory appendages are implanted beneath the user's first
pair. While these limbs don't grant the user extra actions or attacks,
they can hold and manipulate objects normally, including a shield, and
they are impervious to ordinary fire, caustics, or other hostile
environments. These limbs can be made to appear much like normal human
appendages, or they may be left as obvious clockwork or cyberware.

[Eidolon Control Node:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A simple spiritual eidolon is
implanted in the user's sensory and motor-control centers. If the target
is reduced to zero hit points but not torn apart or otherwise rendered
incapable of movement, the eidolon pilots the unconscious subject's body
toward a predetermined end. The eidolon can cause the body to physically
attack, flee, use simple equipment, apply first aid, or navigate a
situation about as well as a clever dog. The eidolon doesn't know how to
speak, activate gifts or other complex magical powers the user may have,
but it can understand simple speech and recognizes friends of the user.
The eidolon can keep the body functioning for five minutes or until the
body suffers ten more points worth of damage. The eidolon will follow
plans or intentions held by the user before their unconsciousness;
lacking such directions, it will seek to preserve the user's life by
flight or desperate physical combat.

[Full-Body Hardening:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user's entire skin is
replaced with a metallic shell and reinforced joint guards. Their
unarmored armor class becomes 0, with no saving throw penalties. The
hardening sacrifices all but the most basic sense of touch, however, and
is too rigid to allow for a Dexterity modifier to improve the resultant
armor class.

[Gecko Augmentation:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Arcane sympathies are worked into
the user's legs, granting them the ability to stick to solid vertical
surfaces. They can cross walls and ceilings at their normal movement
rate, provided the surface can bear their weight, but they have to move
at least five feet every round or they'll fall off.

[Gorgon Stare:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The Gorgon Stare system violently
desiccates a visible living target's body fluids, catalyzing the effect
with the user's own life force. The user expends one hit point or hit
die each time this implant is used, instantly killing a visible lesser
foe if they fail a Hardiness saving throw. Even on a success, they
suffer a 1d10 damage die, as do worthy foes targeted by the Gorgon
Stare. A victim can be harmed by the Gorgon Stare only once per scene.
Those killed by it leave dried, mummified corpses behind.

[Grip of Unseen Force:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user's hand can project an
invisible short-range telekinetic force, manipulating objects up to 50
feet away as if with one of the user's hands. Objects being used or worn
by another person cannot be manipulated without their cooperation. When
the hand is free, the force can be formed into a telekinetic shield that
counts as a normal shield, improving the user's armor class by 1. The
shield also absorbs the first point of physical damage the user suffers
during a scene if it's manifested during the attack.

[Hummingbird Heels:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Aerial sigils are carved into the
bones of the subject's legs and inlaid with thaumaturgic channeling
circuits. At the cost of one hit point or hit die of life energy or by
Committing Effort fort the day, the user can fly at their normal
movement rate for five minutes. Whether the cyber is active or not, they
are immune to falling damage, and may hover unmoving in the air rather
than fall.

[Implanted Arm Weaponry:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A rifle-sized missile weapon
can be implanted in a user's arm, designed to pop out of the
apparently-normal limb and fire when needed. The other arm is used for
ammunition storage, usually an amount ample for any ordinary firefight.
Afterwards, the arm is reloaded through concealed ports. Recoil damping
and ocular integration gives the weapon a +1 bonus to hit and damage
rolls that does not stack with gift-augmented attacks.

[Inexorable Targeting Link:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A fine mesh of
neuromuscular control sutras are woven into the subject's arms, granting
them brief bursts of supernatural accuracy. Once per scene as an On Turn
action, the user may skip rolling a hit roll for a physical attack and
simply treat it as a natural 20. This ability cannot be used after a
roll has already been made.

[Internal Purity Seals:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A complex system of digestive
and respiration isolation, blood scrubbers, and mucoid seals leaves the
subject immune to non-magical toxins, poison gas, and diseases, and
grants an extra saving throw against magical afflictions.

[Malocchio Implants:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user's eyes are modified to
project focused beams of misfortune when desired. Once per scene as an
Instant action, the user can force any visible enemy to reroll a
successful attack roll, saving throw, or attribute check. A creature can
be affected by the implants only once per scene.

[Memory Vault:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user is able to selectively "vault"
memories and knowledge, sealing it away from their surface awareness for
as long as desired. They remain subconsciously aware of these facts and
can act accordingly, but telepathy or other memory probes will detect
nothing of these memories. In extremis, the user can encode these
memories so that even they can't willingly express the knowledge until
it's released by a specific code-phrase.

[Micronized Ward Weaves:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This highly experimental web
of miniaturized occult wards requires a laborious series of surgeries to
implant, but once in place, it increases the Effort cost of all powers
used against the target by 1 point, if any cost exists. Thus, a power
that requires Committing one Effort for a scene now requires two, while
one that requires Committing Effort for its duration now requires
Committing two Effort instead. This surcharge is applied even if the
user is just one member of several being affected by a gift or miracle.
Due to the wide-spectrum abjurations required by the technology, this
implant is only usable by subjects with no intrinsic supernatural
powers. Only the worst Effort penalty is applied to gifts used in the
weave's presence, so multiple weaves in an affected group still only add
1 point of surcharge.

[Miniaturized Components:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This cyberware doesn't
actually do anything of its own; instead, it's applied to existing
cyberware, compacting it and aetherializing much of its physical
structure. The cyberware then ceases to count for purposes of filling a
body location slot, thus allowing another piece of cyber to be put into
the same slot.

[Piercing Gaze:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The possessor of these augmented eyes
can see through up to a foot of solid matter. The vision of things on
the other side of a barrier is not good enough for targeting powers that
require line of sight, but it is otherwise treated as normal vision.
Focusing through a barrier requires a full action's concentration.

[Prosthetic Limb:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Too expensive for all but the
wealthiest of those injured in the Republic or Vissio, this cybernetic
or clockwork limb functions just as the original did. It can be made so
lifelike that only close tactile inspection can tell the difference. The
modification does not alter the user's statistics, but can replace a
lost limb.

[Redundant Organ Implants:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Artificial organs and
clockwork viscera are implanted in the wearer, making them substantially
harder to drop in combat. The subject gains an additional 2 hit points
per level. If an NPC, their hit dice increase by one-quarter, rounded
up.

[Resonant Echo Cavity:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A small portion of cranial bone
is removed and replaced with an intricately-cavitated slab of resonant
brass. The user may then nominate up to three persons in sight as
allies; until the next sunrise, the four are woven into a telepathic net
that allows for instant communication between them and an intuitive
sense of each other's physical and mental condition. If the user with
the implant is killed or rendered unconscious, the entire net goes down.
The net has a maximum range of up to ten miles.

[Skitterback Projector:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Once per scene, the possessor
of these implants can use a move action to teleport anywhere within five
hundred feet, provided they can either see the location or have occupied
it within the past day. The projector can be used more than once a
scene, but each further activation requires a full action and drains a
hit point or hit die from the user, the cost increasing by 1 point per
further use. Thus, the fourth teleport in the same scene would take an
action and drain 3 hit points or hit dice from the user.

[Slow Shield Generator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Kinetic dumps are implanted in
the user's torso, giving them a protective shield against very
fast-moving objects. Ranged weapons always do one fewer point of damage
to the user, perhaps doing no injury at all, while melee attacks made by
those unaware of the shield are also reduced by one point of damage per
attack. A melee assailant who recognizes the shield's effects can adjust
their fighting style, trading a -2 penalty to hit to bypass the shield
with slow strikes and herding strokes if they wish. The shield offers no
protection against magical bolts or non-physical projectiles.

[Spelltrap Contingency:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This thamaturgically-absorbent
cell can be targeted by any low magic spell cast by a cooperative
sorcerer. The cell will soak up the magic and hold it in suspension
until the user releases it or a specific simple contingency comes to
pass. A healing spell could thus be triggered by the user's mortal
injury, for example, or an attack spell by an assault from an enemy.
Only one spell can be released per round, even if multiple cells have
been implanted, and the user gets as much control over the spell's
targets and effects as the caster would have had.

[Springblade:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A forearm-long blade of enchanted steel
extends from the user's wrist at their mental command. The blade counts
as a magical weapon and inflicts 1d8 damage, using the better of the
wielder's Strength or Dexterity for its attribute modifier. If used by
surprise against a completely unsuspecting opponent, it always hits.

[The Red Dot of Condemnation:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A beam tagger is
implanted in one of the user's digits. The invisible ray it emits as an
On Turn action can place a thumbnail-sized dot of red light on a single
visible target at a time; for the rest of the scene, the user is always
instinctively aware of the target's exact location. The user may break
the lock at will, allowing them to designate a different target.

[Thousand-Fingered Hand:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A wide variety of small tools
and manipulators are folded into the digits and palm of this hand. The
Thousand-Fingered Hand can serve as knife, hammer, lockpicks, chisel,
firestarter, lamp, or any other small tool that could conceivably be
held in one hand.

[Thundering Fist:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user's hand becomes an electrical
weapon, inflicting 1d8 electricity damage on a target on a hit and using
Dexterity or Wisdom as the modifying attribute. Targets reduced to zero
hit points can be merely stunned and left unconscious for fifteen
minutes if desired, awakening with one hit point. The electrical jolt
can also be used as a ranged weapon against a target up to 30 feet
distant.

[Tread of Tireless Return:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The user's legs are
reinforced with rebuilt muscle and homing processors. The user can
continue walking or running without halt, even sleeping while their legs
automatically navigate terrain or wake them up in cases of danger or
impassible paths. The user can set the legs to seek a particular known
destination as an On Turn action, and they'll do their best to carry the
subject there, even if they are unconscious or mortally wounded. A
second hit on a mortally-wounded user is enough to halt the legs.

[Warded Skin:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Subtle theotechnical wards and subdermal
implants grant the wearer an unarmored armor class of 4 with no saving
throw penalties. This protection is visible in combat as flares of light
or temporary shells of force disperse incoming attacks, but is otherwise
imperceptible even under close physical contact.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer282 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor188}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor189}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker364}Divine
Supremacy

Some Godbound or other supernatural entities are not satisfied with the
mighty powers their Words and innate gifts can grant them. Some desire
more than the adulation of their devotees and the fragrant scent of
their burnt offerings. Other noble-minded divinities are determined to
protect their realm from some alien peril, and can only do so with the
power of unquestioned divinity. Whether for good or ill, these entities
embark on a quest for divine supremacy, seeking to become the arch-god
of their realm.

This quest is dangerous. Every major supernatural entity in the realm
will become intuitively aware of this threat to their freedom, and the
aspiring arch-divinity can expect to be opposed by every significant
power in the land. Only through overwhelming force, ferocious
determination, and ruthless destruction of their foes can any entity
hope to become an arch-god.

Who Can Become an Arch-God?

The process of arch-apotheosis is limited to Godbound and other entities
with some innate bond to a Word of Creation. Lich-kings, primal dragons,
prodigiously-skilled theurgists, and other such great powers can make
the attempt, as well as more conventional parasite gods, Made Gods, and
angelic powers.

Arch-divinity can be shared out among multiple people. If an entire
pantheon of Godbound agrees, they can work together to share the godhead
amongst themselves. While it\'s much easier for an entire pantheon to
overcome the challenges inherent in becoming arch-god of a realm, it
also means that none of them will have unquestioned dominion over what
follows. Disputes among the participants can result in cataclysmic
damage to their domains as none of them have the power to easily stymie
the others.

The Arch-Apotheosis Process

In theory, becoming arch-god of a realm is relatively simple. The
aspiring divinity must first seek out the shard of Heaven that houses
the engine that sustains the realm\'s heart. This massive celestial
engine maintains the realm\'s innermost substance, sustaining its
reality against the chaos of Uncreated Night. While it is not the only
engine that supports the realm\'s functioning, it is the most crucial,
and if it were to be broken the entire realm would start to break apart
in tremendous supernatural disasters until the engine was repaired or
the realm was reduced to unlivable horror.

Finding this prime engine is not easy. Night Roads to its shard can
usually only be found in the deepest, most dangerous regions of the
realm, often sealed off for uncounted ages. Even the angelic powers
cannot always say which engine is most crucial to a given realm if the
angel responsible for its upkeep did not ally itself with their new
cause. Ancient theurgic texts can sometimes lead seekers to these
portals, or cryptic instructions left in the ruins of the Former
Empires, but finding the shard that contains a specific realm\'s prime
engine is always a great quest for a seeker.

Once the shard is found, the seeker must pass the Night Road to it,
overcome the ancient defenses or more recent inhabitants of the shard,
and reach the engine itself. Once there, they may invoke their
connection to the Words of Creation to realign the prime engine into
sympathy with their own will or the will of their shared pantheon. This
process takes at least seven days and nights, and requires a tremendous
amount of Dominion to be poured into the process in order to reconfigure
the celestial engines of the realm.

To realign a prime engine, the seekers must spend an amount of Dominion
equal to thirteen times the realm\'s base size as given on page
[[129]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor122).
Thus, taking over a tiny, village-sized realm would cost 13 Dominion
points, the village\'s base size cost of one multiplied by thirteen.
Seizing a realm as big as Arcem or larger would cost 208 Dominion
points, as the realm\'s size cost of 16 is multiplied by thirteen.

As soon as an entity begins to realign the prime engine, however, every
entity in the realm with a connection to the Words of Creation becomes
intuitively aware of what\'s happening. Visions of the seeker fill their
dreams and they gain an intuitive sense of the location of the Night
Road that connects their realm to the prime engine\'s shard. All of them
are instinctively aware that if the seeker is not stopped, they will
gain unimaginable power over the realm and all within it.

Supernatural NPCs may hinder this attempt at seizing the realm by
exerting their own occult power to stop it. Multiply the total Dominion
cost by the largest applicable multiplier on page
[[130]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor123).
Thus, if a major parasite god, an Eldritch, and a phalanx of holy
priests were fighting the assimilation, the total cost would be
multiplied by 8, because that\'s the multiplier for a major parasite
god\'s interference. If the parasite god were cowed or destroyed, the
multiplier would become 4, because that\'s the value for the next
mightiest opponent of the process. These resisters need to remain
stationary in a single location, usually the seat of their power, and
focus their entire efforts on resisting the assumption of divine might.

Because of this, it\'s virtually impossible to take over a large realm
without utterly cowing or destroying all significant supernatural rivals
within it. If these rivals are still willing and able to resist the
seeker, they usually ensure that it is prohibitively expensive to seize
the realm. Even so, particularly determined seekers or cooperative
pantheons might have enough Dominion to brute-force their way to victory
if the number of potent resisters are few enough, particularly in a very
small realm.

Resistance does come at a price, however. Entities who oppose the
assumption of arch-godhood become known to the candidate, along with
their approximate location. It is impossible to hide this information
while also opposing the entity\'s ascension. While the seeker cannot
leave the prime engine while the process is underway, lieutenants and
dread minions may be dispatched to \"persuade\" the refuser.

If the seeker is driven away from the prime engine during this process,
the Dominion expended is wasted and the attempt fails. They can still
attempt it again, or if exceptionally spiteful, they might even try to
damage the prime engine badly enough that the offending realm is
destroyed.

If an entity becomes arch-god of more than one realm, they can bind
these shattered fragments of the world together as part of the
realignment process, merging them into a single realm if they so wish.
The violence of this merging depends on how much resistance there is to
the new god\'s ascent; the more committed Influence and Dominion that\'s
being overridden by the deity, the more cataclysmic the unification. If
no one is opposing the deity, the merge can be painlessly smooth. If the
existing resistance multiplier is x4 or greater, the process will be
attended with earthquakes, storms, floods, and upheavals on a Biblical
scale.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor190}Benefits
of Arch-Godhood

Arch-divinity of a realm may be vested in a single entity or shared in a
cooperative group of divine collaborators. Once the prime engine is
realigned, however, new members may not be added to the group without
repeating the realignment process at its original cost. More
significantly, perhaps, no member may be [removed]{.CharOverride-2} from
the group. The only way to lose arch-divinity is for someone else to
come along and realign the realm\'s prime engine for their own benefit.
Thus, if a pantheon includes a misfit god, the only way for the group to
get rid of them is to let an outside entity become arch-god in their
place and then willingly step aside for the pantheon to reconstitute
itself without the offending member. Very few pantheons are inclined to
take this step, even discounting the tremendous price in Dominion
involved.

An arch-god has certain benefits from their status. In particular, they
gain the following abilities and perks.

-   When they make changes to their realm with Dominion, no entity\'s
    interference or objection can increase the difficulty. The arch-god
    may have to overcome natural obstacles in the process, but enemies
    cannot increase the cost. At most, they can spend their own Dominion
    to reverse the change, but the arch-god is aware of any such
    manipulation of their realm and may take stern measures against the
    impudent shaper.
-   Arch-gods can focus and coalesce the power of divinity into tangible
    celestial shards. One celestial shard forms monthly in their realm,
    and they know immediately where it is when it forms. Only one shard
    forms no matter how many realms they might control.
-   They can perceive any location in their realm with an action\'s
    worth of focus, seeing and hearing everything going on there and
    penetrating any ward or disguise not fueled by a divine gift. They
    can instantly find individuals within their realm if they so wish.
-   By Committing Effort for the scene, they can instantly appear at any
    location within their realm or within the shard of Heaven that
    contains its prime engine, provided they were somewhere within the
    realm or shard to begin with. Thus, if they visit another realm,
    they cannot instantly return to their own domain with this ability.
    By Committing Effort for the day, they can take up to a dozen
    willing companions with them. This power can be blocked by
    appropriate offensive dispelling or theurgic wards of binding.
-   When within their realm or its prime engine\'s shard, they fail any
    saving throws only on a natural 1 and their maximum Effort is
    doubled.

These abilities are shared equally among all participants in the
arch-godhead, even when they\'re used to oppose each other. Thus, two
members of a pantheon who disagreed over the proper shaping of a culture
would both be able to spend Dominion to change it, and neither of them
would be able to interfere with each others\' exertions, only to change
it back at the usual Dominion cost after each time it\'s \"improved\" by
the other.

As it\'s usually prohibitively difficult or dangerous to exclude a
member from a arch-pantheon once they\'ve attained the prize of supreme
divinity, most pantheons are forced to simply endure their
disagreements, albeit violence may be considered in desperate
situations.

Arch-Godhood in Your Campaign

While the mighty gifts of arch-divinity are certainly enough to appeal
to a player, there are a few other uses for the idea of arch-divinity
that can prove interesting in a campaign.

The most obvious angle is to have the PCs oppose some mighty NPC who
seeks the divine throne of their home realm. God-emperors have a known
tendency to seek apotheosis in this way, though evil wizards,
megalomaniacal tyrants, and long-dead Lovecraftian entities also share
this common ambition.

In order to achieve this power, however, the antagonist needs to find
the prime engine of the shard, clear whatever guardians or perils might
block the way to it, and subdue any major supernatural opponents of
their ultimate rule, usually in this order.

The PCs might find themselves racing to obtain or conceal the
information the NPC seeks, trying to cut them off before they can reach
the broken heavens. The entity might be personally involved in these
investigative expeditions or they may just send trusted lieutenants to
bring them the information. If the PCs successfully steal the only
available source of the knowledge, the antagonist might be forced to cut
deals or seek to pressure the heroes in other ways to force them to
divulge the secrets.

Once the antagonist has the location of the prime engine, they need to
fight through the guardians. It may be that the Night Road that leads to
the shard is somewhere in a hostile city, or physically located within
the realm in some hidden sacred locale. The PCs might be called upon to
reinforce these defenses, or the antagonist\'s allies might be powerful
enough to push right through them and put the focus on the next stage of
the process.

The crucial final stage of attaining apotheosis is the overcoming of any
supernatural resistance to ascension. The antagonist\'s minions will be
crossing the world, killing, intimidating, or suborning supernatural
entities into the new divine order. Because resisters have to remain in
one area and focused on resisting the change, PCs are unlikely to be
able to join this resistance unless they\'re willing to sit tight and
destroy whatever waves of enemies the antagonist sends to dislodge them.
More likely, the heroes need to breach the prime engine and take out the
antagonist before they finally accrue enough Dominion to overwhelm
whatever minor resisters are left alive in the realm outside.

Defeating an Arch-God

Once an entity has become an arch-god, further resistance within their
realm is mostly hopeless. The arch-god can mold the realm as they wish
without interference, they have huge pools of Effort, and there are no
major supernatural entities left that aren\'t either allies or cowed
subjects. Even if the heroes somehow manage to threaten them, they can
instantly flee the scene unless their enemies bring just the right tools
to pin them in place.

The only real way to overcome an arch-god within their realm is to bring
overwhelming force. A pantheon of veteran Godbound have a chance against
a lone arch-god if they\'re prepared with exactly the right Words and
artifacts to defeat the arch-god\'s powers and keep them from escaping
when the battle turns against them.

If the heroes don\'t have that kind of might at their disposal, it might
be necessary to lure the arch-god out of their realm, to a land where
they no longer have their tremendous advantages. One chance might be
when the arch-god seeks to assimilate another realm; they\'ll be
vulnerable as they seek to bind the new land at its prime engine.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer283 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor191}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker365}Godwalkers

Godwalkers are a relic of ancient theotechnical research, an offshoot of
the deep arts that resulted in the Made Gods. These titans of polished
steel and glowing sigils once towered over the battlefields of the
Former Empires, sacred engines of ruin in the service of their gods. The
privilege of piloting these great war machines was reserved to the most
zealous of the paladins of their people, most often picked nobility or
combat-trained temple hierarchs.

Godwalkers operate by drawing divine sympathies between their shape,
their function, and their pilots. A godwalker forged in the shape of a
mighty warrior thus draws down a great blessing of war and can be
empowered with assorted components that channel divine miracles of
martial prowess. A godwalker in the shape of a vehicle is a peerless
conveyance, swift to transport its riders and unleash wrath on those who
would impede its way. A few experimental godwalkers were even crafted in
more exotic shapes, such as thrones or libraries, in order to draw more
pacifistic divine sympathies. The great majority, however, were forged
as weapons of war.

Every godwalker has a name, which varies with their creating
civilization. The modern walkers of the Thousand Gods are named for the
glorious qualities of their god-patrons, while the engines of the
Thousand Hero Army of the True King were named with poetic similes of
resolution and regret. Some bore the name of dead heroes, their
armaments or very bones worked into the substance of the godwalker\'s
chassis. Indeed, it was not unknown for pilots to take the name of their
godwalker as part of their rites of dedication to the mighty chariot of
divinity.

These godwalker pilots were trained carefully for their work. While
it\'s not impossible for a completely ignorant human to operate a
godwalker by instinct and blind impulse, true mastery of its divine
components and unique abilities requires extensive training and
practice. Only the most trustworthy warriors of the Former Empires were
entrusted with this grave duty, and in the modern day these esoteric
arts are unknown in Arcem outside of the Thousand Gods.

In many realms godwalkers are entirely unknown. The Former Empires who
ruled there found no use for them, or they were all dispatched to
distant realms, or they were all destroyed in the cataclysmic fighting
of the Last War. In Arcem, however, the fate of these great machines was
not so simple.

Godwalkers in Arcem

In the wake of the Shattering the sophisticated theurgic infrastructure
necessary for building and maintaining godwalkers crumbled away.
Attrition, scavenging, and simple mechanical failure withered their
numbers until the godwalkers were no more than legends in most realms.
Today, the nations of the sundered world make war with simple tools, for
that is all that they can support.

Among the Thousand Gods, matters are different. The tribes there are
heirs to the finest theotechnical researchers of the realm, and they
have preserved enough of their science and sorcery to build godwalkers
and keep them functioning. The work is exhausting and requires the
active aid of the tribe\'s divine god-ruler, but the tribes can field a
few of these massive machines in the service of their patron.

Modern godwalkers lack the polished aesthetic of the ancient engines,
owing more to rune-carved tropical hardwoods, enchanted feathers,
laboriously polished stones, sacred war paints, and the animated bones
of tribal heroes. Even so, the skill of the crafters and the aid of
their patron god can make these modern wonders perform just as well as
the marvels of former days. Lesser tribes may not have a single
godwalker, and only the mightiest have more than a handful of these
machines. Each is piloted by a hero of the tribe, and the privilege of
this role is the greatest honor a tribal god may confer upon one of its
warriors.

Because of the intimate tie between the godwalker\'s pilot and their
tribe, it is almost unheard-of for one of these engines to leave the
Thousand Gods. Only a scant few have ever abandoned their people to work
for the nations of the north, and the sheer destructiveness of their
power has ensured that their careers were both dramatic and very short
as every rival power in the north tried to destroy them before they
could wreak havoc. The vast majority of a godwalker\'s time is spent
fighting over tribal champions in the Thousand Gods, though occasional
raids into the Toban plains keep their dread fresh in the minds of the
Toban nomads.

Other nations sometimes have a godwalker or two kept within some ancient
armory, but these hulks are often useless to their owners. The
maintenance requirements are so steep for keeping them in order that
only major nations can manage the difficult theotechnical procedures
required, or afford the tremendous cost of their upkeep. Without paying
such a cost, pilots can\'t be trained or kept proficient, and so there
is no one who can be trusted to pilot the godwalker when it should be
needed.

Modern rulers are more likely to build a temple around a godwalker and
use it as a particularly imposing idol than they are to pay the price of
keeping it and its pilot in fighting trim. Still, major nations in a
realm usually have the resources to field a few godwalkers when some
terrible need comes upon them, assuming that any godwalkers still exist
in their realm. Many domains haven\'t heard anything more than rumors of
these titans.

Even so, sometimes an ancient godwalker can be found still in its
maintenance rack, somewhere in some lost Former Empire temple or a cyst
of Uncreated Night. These gleaming engines are perfectly preserved, just
waiting for a new pilot to ascend to its control cockpit. For the
limited time that such godwalkers will function before a lack of
maintenance fells them, their pilots can be numbered among the mightiest
warriors of the realm.

Operating a Godwalker

Godwalkers are more primitive, basic implementations of the arts that
led to the creation of the Made Gods. Rather than being intelligent,
artificially-crafted divinities, they are more like gigantic suits of
armor that channel the echoes of divine power through their
carefully-devised components. A godwalker requires a pilot to function,
and without such a trained operator it is little more than an
intimidating statue.

This pilot must have a Fact related to being a trained godwalker pilot,
or else they will be unable to activate any of its attached components
or attack in any way more complicated than a physical blow. Mortal NPCs
without training can acquire proficiency by spending six months
practicing regularly with a godwalker. Godbound and PCs must commit a
Fact to such training, usually one earned by leveling up after a
suitable training period. Godbound with appropriate technical or martial
Words such as Knowledge, Sword, Bow or Artifice intuitively understand
how to pilot a godwalker.

Godwalker theotechnology was not designed to deal with a Godbound
pilot\'s abilities. While it\'s possible for a Godbound to pilot one,
they cannot Commit Effort to activate their own gifts or miracles while
integrated with the godwalker, though free or Constant abilities may be
used and will affect the entire godwalker as if it were the PC\'s own
body. Patching into or detaching from a godwalker\'s cockpit harness
takes one round\'s action for a pilot in the cockpit.

A piloted godwalker is treated as a single creature for combat purposes.
This single creature has the hit dice of the godwalker, its armor class,
its actions per round, its saving throw, and so forth. It uses the basic
attack bonus of the pilot, but not their attribute modifiers; instead,
the godwalker itself gives them a bonus based on its intrinsic targeting
systems. By the same token, the damage the godwalker\'s weapons do or
its armor class aren\'t modified by the pilot\'s own attributes. If an
attribute check is somehow required of the godwalker, the pilot\'s
attributes are used. Godwalkers are always treated as worthy foes for
purposes of resisting abilities or Fray dice and can always Commit
Effort for the day to succeed on otherwise-failed saving throws.

Godwalkers have an intrinsic supply of Effort which they can commit to
fuel their gifts and effects or automatically succeed at saving throws.
Effort committed for the day can only be recovered with a maintenance
cycle, which is unavailable in Arcem outside of the tribal technicians
and theotechncial infrastructure of the Thousand Gods. PCs who want to
recharge a badly-depleted godwalker will need to make their own
arrangements or develop their own infrastructure.

The first time a godwalker is activated each day, it Commits Effort for
the day to fuel its operation. It may be shut down and reactivated any
number of times for the next 24 hours before an additional point of
Effort must be Committed to keep it running.

Damage inflicted on a godwalker creates sympathetic injuries on its
pilot. Whenever the godwalker loses a quarter of its maximum hit dice,
the pilot loses a quarter of their maximum hit dice or hit points in
turn, rounded down. This damage is inflicted as soon as the pilot
patches in, so assuming control of a badly-damaged godwalker will
instantly result in similar damage appearing on the pilot. A pilot
cannot be reduced below 1 hit point or 1 hit die by this sympathetic
injury.

A godwalker reduced to zero hit dice becomes inoperative, and its pilot
is left with only 1 hit point or hit die. They can detach themselves
from the harness with a round\'s effort and climb out of the
godwalker\'s cockpit, but sufficiently impressive moving devices or
superhuman strength will be needed to get the godwalker back to a place
where it can be repaired.

Godwalkers in Your Campaign

At their simplest, godwalkers make for useful opponents for the PCs when
they\'re dealing with the tribes of the Thousand Gods. A single
godwalker is unlikely to be able to overcome an experienced pantheon,
but one in coordination with tribal warriors and priest-sorcerers can be
a serious threat, particularly if the tribe\'s patron god gets involved
as well. A tribe strong enough to field a half-dozen of these beasts can
make even a full pantheon find wisdom in being elsewhere, particularly
if they\'re being piloted by heroes with excellent base attack bonuses
and unflinching morale.

You can also insert godwalkers in other nations, either as wonders
salvaged from a recently-discovered ruin, a national treasure kept for
some hour of dire need, or as the product of another Godbound\'s magical
forges. The PCs might end up fighting this eidolon, or they could seek
to steal it for their own purposes. Given that godwalkers are much more
useful to ordinary mortals than to Godbound, the pantheon might find
themselves wanting an engine to boost the power of a well-favored mortal
or a champion of their own cult. After all, if it works for the Thousand
Gods, shouldn\'t it work for them?

Godwalkers can also serve as major treasures for the PCs to discover,
perhaps unearthing them from a forgotten ruin or finding one still
operational in a shard of Heaven. A fully-operational godwalker is a
priceless thing, and the PCs would be well-advised to think about how
they mean to keep the agents of half the nations in the realm from
trying to \"persuade\" them to turn over the engine.

Godwalkers in Play

As explained before, godwalkers are treated as creatures in combat. They
have their own hit dice, armor class, maximum Effort, movement rates,
and other statistics. All godwalkers require a trained pilot to operate
them; once secured in the godwalker\'s cockpit, the pilot cannot be
targeted or affected by external effects. Only the godwalker can be
damaged or targeted until it is destroyed or the pilot leaves the
cockpit.

Godwalkers are equipped with special abilities and focused enchantments
that mimic the effect of Godbound gifts or other mighty sorceries. These
abilities are on a par with gifts, and can\'t be dispelled or overcome
as conventional low magic or theurgy. Only miracles of dispelling from
an appropriate Word can block or stifle them. Godwalkers use their
intrinsic Effort to fuel their abilities. Any Effort their pilot may
have can\'t be used to trigger godwalker powers. Godwalkers can reclaim
Effort committed temporarily or for the scene normally, but Effort
committed for the day requires a full maintenance cycle to restore.
Godwalkers usually need to Commit Effort for the day the first time
they\'re activated in a day, so a godwalker without access to
functioning maintenance support will rapidly run out of power.

The theotechnical channels of the godwalkers were never intended to be
directed by a Godbound pilot. Once interfaced with the godwalker, a
Godbound can\'t Commit Effort until they leave the machine. They can
still use constant powers or other abilities that don\'t require them to
Commit Effort, and these abilities will affect the godwalker they\'re
piloting. Thus, a Godbound could get use from a gift that automatically
alerted them to an impending ambush, and a Constant gift that let them
easily traverse vertical surfaces would also affect the godwalker\'s
mighty limbs.

Godwalkers are always considered worthy foes for the purpose of
resisting hostile effects and Fray dice. They can Commit their own
Effort just as a Godbound does to automatically succeed at a failed
saving throw.

Designing a Godwalker

Godwalkers are fashioned of individual components, some mandatory,
others optional. Every godwalker needs certain components to function at
all, while others add powers, improve its base statistics, or grant
bonuses to its operation.

Every godwalker needs a [chakra engine]{.CharOverride-3}, the locus of
its divine fire and the interface between its artifices and the
celestial forces that power it. The type of chakra engine chosen
determines the number of slots the godwalker will have for optional
equipment, with different types of slots useful for different types of
divine components.

A [sacred armature]{.CharOverride-3} is the basic chassis of the
godwalker, whether humanoid, beast-like, or mechanical in shape.
Different types of armatures offer different advantages, whether they
might include functioning hands, vast transport space, integral flight
ability, or remarkably sturdy construction. The sacred armature of a
godwalker is considered its fundamental \"self\", the part of the
machine that has earned a name and which persists in its identity.

Once the designer has chosen a chakra engine and an armature to put it
in, they have a functioning godwalker. It may lack many of the abilities
and special powers of a better-equipped creation, but it can fight in
combat and move as its pilot directs. Most theotechncial armorers take
the time to install additional systems, however, to better equip the
machine for its duties.

Every additional piece of equipment has a chakra slot type. Any
equipment can be mounted to any godwalker, provided its chakra engine
provides enough free slots of the right type and the chassis is large
enough to support the component. Once all an engine\'s chakra slots are
filled, the godwalker can\'t add anything more without uninstalling some
hardware.

Chakra Engines and Engine Slots

Chakra engines provide a certain number of slots representing their
divine sympathies and occult capacities. The slots an engine provides
are divided up among five types.

[Fire]{.CharOverride-3} slots are dedicated to weapons and offensive
systems. The support divine components that do damage to opponents or
empower the godwalker\'s attacks.

[Metal]{.CharOverride-3} slots are filled by defensive systems and
components meant to increase the hardiness of the basic godwalker
armature.

[Void]{.CharOverride-3} slots normally support components that deal with
communications, senses, and command. Void slots are exceptional,
however, in that they can support [any]{.CharOverride-2} type of
component if necessary. A chakra engine like the Thirsting Altar with
its six Void slots can thus support an extremely flexible component
loadout, albeit often less efficiently than a more focused engine.

[Water]{.CharOverride-3} slots are for utility, transformation, and
creation components, including such additions as might provide
battlefield engineering benefits or logistical support.

[Wind]{.CharOverride-3} slots relate to movement, whether augmenting
existing moves of locomotion or offering entirely new movement modes.

Chakra engines also have a listed size, which indicates the smallest
sacred armature that can contain them. It\'s possible to power a larger
armature with a smaller engine, albeit the fewer available slots of the
smaller engines tend to make that an inadvisable choice when other
options exist.

If GMs choose to design new chakra engines, a good guideline is to give
small engines five slots, medium engines six, and large engines seven.
Adjust this total if the engine has any additional benefits.

Building a Godwalker

The first thing any artificer needs to build a godwalker is a
construction facility worthy of the task. Many tribes of the Thousand
Gods have functioning construction forges, but only thanks to the
cooperation of their patron gods and the focused effort of the tribe. If
a godbound artificer can\'t win their help, they\'ll need to construct
their own forges, as no other nation of Arcem has been able to preserve
such sophisticated facilities.

Assuming the facility, staff, and components are available, the
artificer can forge the elements of the godwalker. Each component,
whether chakra engine, sacred armature, or additional equipment, has a
Dominion cost for its creation. The artificer may pay this Dominion
cost, or it may be paid by a Godbound ally with a relevant Word. The
component is then created over a period of months, with the facility
staff building one Dominion point of hardware each month for every
thousand laborers. Thus, a facility with six thousand trained laborers
building a component that costs six Dominion points would take a month
to finish it. Building one that costs only three Dominion points could
be done in only two weeks.

With all the pieces complete, the godwalker can be assembled in one week
by a thousand laborers, with more help finishing the job more quickly in
a proportional way. If different equipment or components are to be
swapped into an existing godwalker, the same amount of time is required
to enact the change.

Creating a Construction Facility

It may well be that no construction facility is available when the
players want to build a godwalker. If the GM decides to allow the
prospect, the heroes can build their own facility.

Creating a godwalker construction facility counts as a 16-point Dominion
change requiring the acquisition of at least four celestial shards and
the overcoming of one substantial challenge related to establishing the
facility. The artificer in charge of the project must either be bound to
the Word of Artifice or have a Fact or Word related to knowing how to
build a godwalker. The latter might be the product of the correct study
or Word of Knowledge, but finding the ancient lore necessary to create
such an engine would be a worthy challenge for a hero. Other godbound in
the pantheon may contribute to the Dominion needed for the change,
provided they can explain how their powers are helpful.

Once the artificer has a facility, they need a staff to run it. While
it\'s theoretically possible for a lone crafter to build a godwalker
from scratch without assistance, the time frame is usually prohibitively
long. Each thousand laborers under the crafter\'s direction can build
one Dominion point of the eventual godwalker in one month\'s time.
Godbound with the Word of Artifice and the right gifts might provide
much of this labor, but more might need to be recruited and trained from
allied nations or loyal cultists, most likely with marvels of Dominion
to speed up their education.

Lastly, the artificer needs raw materials. While the facility is capable
of conjuring or synthesizing most of what it needs to build the
godwalker, one celestial shard is needed for each component in the
godwalker. While this requirement is unavoidable for the chakra engine
and the sacred armature, other components can substitute the aid of
Godbound who has bound a Word relevant to the equipment for the
celestial shard requirement. Their divine power can bless and sanctify
the components and ready them to receive the celestial power that will
flow through them.

Repairing and Maintaining Godwalkers

A normal maintenance cycle requires one hundred trained theotechnicians,
six hours, and a set of vanishingly rare godwalker maintenance tools. If
these tools can\'t be found in some ancient ruin, a Godbound with
relevant Words or Facts can recreate them at a cost of 2 Dominion points
and one week of work. A maintenance cycle restores 1d6 lost hit dice and
restores any Effort the godwalker may have committed for the day. A
maintenance cycle can\'t be performed any more quickly than this by
mortal theotechnicians, and only one maintenance cycle can be performed
between full overhauls.

A full overhaul of the godwalker requires the same number of
theotechnicians, and the same sort of tools, but requires 72 hours and
repairs all damage the godwalker has suffered. Doubling the number of
properly-equipped theotechnicians halves the time for a full overhaul,
so a small army of 800 theotechnicians with eight sets of godwalker
maintenance tools could repair a godwalker completely in only 9 hours. A
full overhaul takes at least an hour, no matter how many workers are
employed.

A godwalker that has been reduced to zero hit dice has been critically
damaged. A randomly-selected half of its components have been completely
destroyed, excepting the chakra engine and sacred armature. Before it
can be repaired, two Dominion points and a month of work by a team of a
thousand theotechnicians must be expended before it and its remaining
components can be made functional again.

Godbound who use gifts of the Word of Artifice to heal damaged
godwalkers can do so much more quickly, and with the right gifts they
can fix almost any amount of damage in mere moments. This kind of rapid
restoration of the godwalker weakens and disperses its available energy,
however, and each 4 points of damage healed this way require the
godwalker to Commit a point of Effort for the day. If the godwalker has
no more Effort to commit, it just can\'t sustain this \"healing\" and
can\'t be repaired this way. Godbound of Artifice can also conduct a
full overhaul in a matter of minutes with the right gifts or miracles,
but a godwalker can be restored this way only once per day and it cannot
be so quickly fixed in mid-combat. Godwalkers reduced to zero hit dice
are beyond this magical repair, however, and must be restored as given
above.

In Arcem, most major nations have access to godwalker maintenance tools.
They may not have many sufficiently-trained technicians and sages, but
they can usually scrape together a few hundred given time and
forewarning. Those nations that still have functional godwalkers usually
keep these artificers in reserve, leaving them to conduct their studies
and oversee their ateliers unless summoned by the ruler. Such summons
are most often made when a godwalker has been depleted by training or
warfare, and a fresh overhaul is needed to recharge its Effort reserves.
More fortunate states have godwalkers equipped with endurance fittings
or long-running engines that they can use for the training of their
elite pilot-knights.

Only the strongest and most sophisticated nations can summon the full
thousand artificers needed to actually [repair]{.CharOverride-2} a
damaged godwalker. Because of the difficulty of repairing such damage,
even those nations that possess functional godwalkers are loathe to use
them for anything short of a national crisis. Just keeping a few pilots
trained and ready for deployment is as much as they can manage, with the
position often decaying into mere ceremony. It\'s not uncommon for the
official role to be filled by a noble who\'s hardly seen the inside of a
godwalker cockpit, while the real training is done by some grim champion
willing to eat, drink, and live their service to the state.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer284 .Sidebar}
Godwalkers in Your Game

Some GMs and groups will be very enthusiastic about the existence of
godwalkers in their campaign. Even if none of the PCs have an interest
in piloting one or training minions to do so, they like the idea and
might find it interesting to fight one.

Other groups will not be so keen on them. It\'s entirely up to the GM
whether godwalkers exist in their campaign world. Even those in Arcem
can be trimmed out entirely with no damage to the setting if the GM or
group prefers a less magitechnical sort of campaign.

If you do keep godwalkers, they\'re likely to have the greatest use as
boosters for low-level Godbound and equalizers for mortal opponents.
Veteran Godbound can usually do more with their native powers than a
godwalker can, though even then, vehicular walkers still have their
pragmatic uses.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer285 .Text-Frame}
Sacred Armatures

The sacred armature is the heart of a godwalker\'s identity, the grand
construct of prayer and steel that channels the glorious power of the
divine. Without a chakra engine to power it however, it\'s no more than
an inanimate statue. An armature without divine components is also of
limited use, though even an entirely stripped armature can at least
move, transport, and manipulate objects as its physical design permits.

Each armature has a size class: small, medium, or large. The size class
of an armature affects what chakra engines and divine components it can
mount. Larger armatures can mount smaller engines and components, but
smaller armatures are limited in their choices.

Armatures have room for a single pilot and their personal equipment.
Unless specified otherwise, additional cargo or passengers requires the
mounting of the [Cargo Space]{.CharOverride-2} Water component.

[Che:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A combat transport by design, the Che is roughly
wagon-shaped, large enough to transport as many as twenty heroes along
with its pilot, or 250 pounds of cargo for each hero omitted. The Che
cannot fly without special components, but it can hover as much as
twenty feet above the ground and can ignore water and rough terrain
barriers. Overland, it travels about 30 miles an hour.

[Epitaph:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The standard front-line godwalker of the
Former Empires, the Epitaph is humanoid in shape, standing roughly
thirty feet tall. It moves on foot, barring special movement components.

[Eyas:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The Eyas came in several sub-variant forms,
ranging from triangular fighters to stylized bird-golem shapes. The
armature flies with remarkable agility, and can hover and fly backward
with perfect ease. If the pilot is not engaged in combat and is focusing
entirely on flight, the Eyas can reach speeds of up to 200 miles an hour
over long distances.

[Grigori:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The heaviest shock godwalker developed by
most Former Empires, the Grigori is a hulking humanoid shape at least
fifty feet tall. Integral terrain stabilizers prevent the Grigori from
sinking into soft earth or losing its footing on rough terrain, but it
still must navigate its way around water barriers too deep to wade.

[Iron Eclipse:]{.Bolded-Run-In} These gigantic flying warships were the
pride of more than one Former Empire, the fruit of tremendous
theotechnical research and the manufacturing effort of an entire
civilization. The exact outlines of an Iron Eclipse varied with its
creators, but most of these godwalkers were at least seven hundred feet
long and one hundred feet wide, with up to a thousand crew and
passengers. While the Iron Eclipse can be operated by a single pilot,
the additional crew provided their own weaponry and sorcery to the
armature\'s complement of components, and could fight from the deck. An
Iron Eclipse can reach non-combat speeds of up to 60 miles an hour,
barring the influence of special movement components.

[Kraken:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The Kraken has a decidedly squidlike outline,
the body portion roughly twenty feet long with four major manipulatory
tentacles extending forty feet from the body. These tentacles can
maneuver the Kraken on land at a 30\' movement rate, but its chief
function was always as a submarine armature, meant for operating deep
beneath the ocean surface. The Kraken is equipped with integral sensory
blessings that give its pilot full normal vision and hearing while
underwater. While at sea, it travels 20 miles an hour.

[Peltast:]{.Bolded-Run-In} While no armature could ever be considered
inexpensive, the eighteen-foot-tall Peltast was envisioned as a cheap
scouting and garrison godwalker, fast enough to keep ahead of an
advancing army while small enough to avoid immediate notice. While no
match for a godwalker of the conventional line of battle, a
properly-equipped Peltast was more than enough to break rebel militia.

[Seraph:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A mighty winged eidolon standing forty feet
high, the Seraph was one of the rare flying humanoid armatures. Working
flight into the armature\'s basic functionality came at a price, and the
Seraph has no high-speed overland flight mode as the Eyas or Iron
Eclipse does. Even so, conventional fortifications mean nothing to a
titan that can fall on a citadel from above.

[Skate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Some realms were more water than land, and the
Skate was a popular choice for guarding the coast and transporting
important dignitaries in speed and safety. The skate itself is the size
of a small sailing ship, roughly forty feet from prow to stern, and
usually shaped in a vaguely manta-ray outline. Even without additional
components, the Skate can carry up to twenty passengers and can sail at
30 miles an hour when not embroiled in combat.

[Vorax:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Slow, inaccurate, and almost indestructible,
the Vorax was a favored humanoid armature for carrying vital command
equipment or crucial personnel. Unlike other armatures, a Vorax\'s
internal repair units restore 1 lost hit die every hour automatically.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer286 .Single-Column}
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| Arm   | Dom   | Size | Hit  | Armor | Hit   | Move  | Save |       |
| ature | inion |      |      |       | Bonus |       |      |       |
|       |       |      | Dice | Class |       |       |      |       |
|       | Cost  |      |      |       |       |       |      |       |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [     | 3     | S    | 14   | 4     | +3    | 60\'  | 8+   | [     |
| Pelta |       |      |      |       |       | run   |      | Small |
| st]{. |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | hum   |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | anoid |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | a     |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | rmatu |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | re]{. |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [Ska  | 4     | S    | 20   | 6     | +2    | 40\'  | 7+   | [Seaf |
| te]{. |       |      |      |       |       | sail  |      | aring |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | a     |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | rmatu |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | re]{. |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [Ey   | 5     | S    | 14   | 5     | +3    | 120\' | 8+   | [A    |
| as]{. |       |      |      |       |       | fly   |      | erial |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | a     |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | rmatu |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | re]{. |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [C    | 3     | S    | 20   | 5     | +1    | 50\'  | 7+   | [Hov  |
| he]{. |       |      |      |       |       | hover |      | ering |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | wagon |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | -like |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | v     |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | ehicl |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | e.]{. |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [     | 6     | M    | 25   | 6     | +2    | 40\'  | 6+   | [Hum  |
| Epita |       |      |      |       |       | run   |      | anoid |
| ph]{. |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | a     |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | rmatu |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | re]{. |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [Krak | 7     | M    | 30   | 7     | +2    | 50\'  | 6+   | [Subm |
| en]{. |       |      |      |       |       | sail  |      | arine |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | cra   |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | ft]{. |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [Vor  | 7     | M    | 35   | 3     | +0    | 20\'  | 5+   | [Ext  |
| ax]{. |       |      |      |       |       | run   |      | ra-du |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | rable |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | hum   |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | anoid |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | a     |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | rmatu |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | re]{. |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [Iron | 16    | L    | 40   | 4     | +2    | 90\'  | 6+   | [A    |
| Eclip |       |      |      |       |       | fly   |      | erial |
| se]{. |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | bat   |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | tlesh |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | ip]{. |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [Sera | 10    | L    | 30   | 5     | +2    | 60\'  | 6+   | [F    |
| ph]{. |       |      |      |       |       | fly   |      | lying |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | hum   |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | anoid |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | tit   |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | an]{. |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
| [     | 10    | L    | 35   | 4     | +3    | 40\'  | 5+   | [Wa   |
| Grigo |       |      |      |       |       | run   |      | lking |
| ri]{. |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | h     |
| CharO |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | umano |
| verri |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | id]{. |
| de-7} |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | CharO |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | verri |
|       |       |      |      |       |       |       |      | de-2} |
+-------+-------+------+------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer287 .Text-Frame}
Chakra Engines

Most godwalker armatures received a specific chakra engine during their
initial creation and kept it for their service life. Due to the modular
nature of the devices, however, it was sometimes deemed appropriate to
change an armature\'s engine for specific duties or missions. This
process required a trained crew of theotechnicians, appropriate
sacrifices, and carefully-calculated propitiatory prayer to avoid
unfortunate divine backlash, but the benefits of an engine
specially-designed to support a certain role were sometimes worth the
effort.

Chakra engines have a minimum armature size they\'ll fit. It\'s possible
to power a large armature with a small engine, but most designers find
it preferable to mount as large an engine as the armature can support.
Sadly, the expense of this sometimes proves impractical.

[Breaker of Cities:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This chakra engine was designed to
be mounted on siege godwalkers and shock armatures, those walkers
forming the sharp edge of an assault that would require numerous
defensive systems and terrain-deforming components.

[Celestial Lance:]{.Bolded-Run-In} A workhorse engine of medium-sized
godwalker armatures, the Celestial Lance was esteemed as a reliable and
effective engine for a Former Empire\'s main battle line.

[Chariot of War:]{.Bolded-Run-In} While the Former Empire
theotechnicians who designed this chakra engine envisioned it as a cheap
skirmisher engine for light picket godwalkers, its relative simplicity
and flexible slot arrangement make it the most popular chakra engine
still created in the Thousand Gods.

[Cinnabar Field Reactor:]{.Bolded-Run-In} An offense-oriented engine
meant chiefly for the godwalkers of the most effective heroes of an
army, the Cinnabar Field Reactor trades logistical utility for superior
mobility. In addition, the unique qualities of the reactor allow its
pilot to expend their own Effort to auto-save in place of the walker\'s.

[Golden Halberd:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The product of a combat doctrine that
emphasized tremendous first strikes, the Golden Halberd was equipped
with a special speed augmentation that allowed its godwalker to Commit
Effort for the day as an On Turn action once per round to gain an extra
action for that round. While the engine\'s Effort reserves were
disappointingly small, the designers thought that a loadout with a low
Effort cost for deployment would compensate for this.

[Hecatomb:]{.Bolded-Run-In} An elaboration of the same design philosophy
that brought about the Golden Halberd, the Hecatomb was an
overwhelmingly offense-oriented engine. Its multiple Fire chakra slots
would allow it a wide variety of devastating offensive options, and its
tremendous speed on the battlefield would sweep away all opposition in
moments. Of course, if that strike failed to clear the way, its
regrettable defensive weakness would leave the armature open to an enemy
counterattack.

[Shining Titan:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This was the standard chakra engine for
the largest godwalkers conventionally fielded by the Former Empires.
Strong defenses, multiple Fire chakra slots for offensive options, and
three actions per round ensure that the godwalker powered by the Shining
Titan will justify its tremendous expense.

[Thirsting Altar:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Very few Thirsting Altars were
created, both due to their enormous cost in resources and the difficulty
of piloting the godwalkers they powered. Their chakra slots were
perfectly flexible, with six Void slots to be filled with whatever
loadout the pilot required. The engine lent itself to loadouts that were
extremely unbalanced, creating single-purpose godwalkers that were far
more effective in their one role than their peers, yet largely useless
outside that function. Very few pilots matched the engine\'s natural
flexibility, and were much better at one or two types of operations,
thus preferring specialized chakra engines that excelled at only those
roles in a cheaper, more efficient way. Still, for a few pilot
polymaths, the Thirsting Altar gave them the field options they craved.

[Thousand League Horse:]{.Bolded-Run-In} While the Thousand League
Horse\'s chakra engine was significantly restricted in its combat
effectiveness due to the lack of Fire or Metal chakra slots, the extreme
efficiency of the design allowed it to operate almost indefinitely.
Unlike most other engines, the Thousand League Horse doesn\'t need to
Commit Effort when first started or at 24 hour intervals thereafter.
Once activated, it can continue operating until damaged beyond use, and
thus was a popular choice as a transport and utility godwalker.

[Tireless Flowing Water:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Like the Thousand League
Horse, the Tireless Flowing Water could be operated without the daily
Effort Commitment most engines require. Light, cheap, and efficient, it
was a favorite for scout godwalkers and extended-duty pickets.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer288 .Single-Column}
<table id="table422" class="No-Table-Style TableOverride-1">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td rowspan="2" class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Chakra
Engine</p></td>
<td rowspan="2" class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Cost</p></td>
<td rowspan="2" class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Min</p>
<p>Size</p></td>
<td colspan="5" class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Component
Slots</p></td>
<td rowspan="2" class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Max</p>
<p>Effort</p></td>
<td rowspan="2"
class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Actions</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Fire</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Metal</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Void</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Water</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-7"><p>Wind</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Tireless Flowing Water</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>S</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4*</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Chariot of War</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>S</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>6</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Golden Halberd</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>S</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1*</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Thousand League Horse</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>6</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>M</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5*</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Celestial Lance</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>8</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>M</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>6</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Cinnabar Field Reactor</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>12</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>M</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>5*</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Breaker of Cities</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>8</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>M</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>8</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Hecatomb</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>16</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>L</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>4</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>10</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Shining Titan</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>16</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>L</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>2</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>1</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>10</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even No-Table-Style _idGenTableRowColumn-1">
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">Thirsting Altar</span></p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>20</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>L</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>6</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>0</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>9</p></td>
<td class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd No-Table-Style">
<td colspan="10" class="No-Table-Style CellOverride-3"><p><span
class="CharOverride-7">* These chakra engines give special abilities to
the godwalker</span></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer289 .Text-Frame}
Divine Components

The components listed here are some of the more common designs utilized
by the Former Empires in equipping their godwalkers. Other designs might
be fabricated by sufficiently clever Artificers, probably as an
Improbable feat assuming that the designer has access to a godwalker
construction facility.

Components can be theoretically created to mimic any lesser gift, but at
substantial price in Dominion. Those components that perform a more
restricted function or a narrower benefit should be cheaper than the
Divine Actuators described in this list. It\'s also necessary to assign
the component to the correct slot type. When the proper type is
ambiguous, the GM should make the call.

[Ablative Blessing Seals:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker gains an extra
20% of its maximum hit dice as a buffer against damage. These bonus hit
dice don\'t affect the godwalker\'s other statistics, but are lost first
when the walker is damaged. They are repaired fully after a full
overhaul, but can\'t be fixed by less thorough maintenance or instant
repair gifts.

[Advance of the Iron Tide:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the day
before moving. So long as the godwalker moves in a straight line, they
have an invincible defense against damage or hostile effects and can
phase harmlessly through solid barriers. They can maintain this immunity
from round to round so long as they do nothing but move in a straight
line.

[Anchor of the Holy Gate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker acts as the
destination node of a teleportation gateway, Committing Effort for the
day to open a gate in its immediate presence. Targets in a
specially-consecrated location elsewhere in the same realm may then come
through the gate, with up to one large godwalker, two medium, or four
small ones passing through each round, or one hundred infantry, or ten
wagons or tank-sized vehicles during the same time. Holding the gate
open requires the godwalker to Commit Effort for the day for each round
it\'s maintained. Preparing a specific location to serve as the sending
end of the gate requires 24 hours of ritual purification, and any
blasphemous behavior within the sending zone will spoil the site until
the area is reconsecrated.

[Banner of Zeal:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort to ignite it. While
active, allies within 500 feet have Morale 12 and you have an invincible
defense against any mental effect that would make you stop attacking
your enemies.

[Cargo Space:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can carry extra passengers
based on its size, or an additional 250 pounds of cargo for each
passenger omitted. Small godwalkers can carry an additional eight
passengers, medium armatures can carry twenty-four, and large armatures
can carry an extra hundred. Most godwalkers normally have room only for
the pilot, though some armatures may have designed space for additional
passengers. Particularly large godwalkers might pull wagons or carry
transport racks, but such transit is much more precarious than traveling
in the safety of a cargo space.

[Clarion Call:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can transmit a telepathic
order to all members of a known friendly group within ten miles. The
pilot gets a brief impression of that group\'s current condition,
position, and activities before issuing the order. The subjects are not
required to obey the order, though they do know who it\'s coming from.

[Clavis of Night:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the day to punch a
temporary hole into Uncreated Night. This hole takes ten minutes to form
and remains open only long enough for the godwalker to enter it. Once
within, the godwalker pilot must have the theurgic coordinates of a
desired destination realm to reach it or they face eternal wandering
within Uncreated Night. These coordinates can only be obtained by
visiting the desired target location and surveying it carefully for a
week with a competent theurge. Certain lost tomes of arcane lore might
also contain the coordinates for locations long since lost to the known
Night Roads. This component takes up two Wind chakra slots rather than
just one, and the travel takes one week.

[Crown of Companions:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker pilot can keep in
telepathic contact with up to a dozen willing allies, knowing their
positions and condition and freely trading thoughts and sensory
perception between them.

[Devourer of Armies:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the scene.
Torrents of lethal sacred energy boil forth from the godwalker,
scorching a cone up to three hundred feet long and as wide at the far
end. Any Mobs largely caught within that area suffer 4d20 damage
straight, and lesser foes suffer the damage rolled normally. Worthy foes
are unharmed.

[Divine Aspect Actuator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The element grants the
godwalker access to a single lesser gift related to transformation,
creation, or alteration, allowing it to use the gift at its normal
Effort cost, assuming it has any. With these and other divine actuators,
a gift\'s effects or conjurations can\'t persist longer than a scene
unless the gift is a Constant self-augment.

[Divine Awareness Actuator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The element grants the
godwalker access to a single lesser gift related to perception or
communication, allowing it to use the gift at its normal Effort cost,
assuming it has any.

[Divine Motion Actuator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The element grants the
godwalker access to a single lesser gift related to movement, allowing
it to use the gift at its normal Effort cost, assuming it has any.

[Divine Shielding Actuator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The element grants the
godwalker access to a single lesser gift related to defense or
protection, allowing it to use the gift at its normal Effort cost,
assuming it has any.

[Divine Smiting Actuator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The element grants the
godwalker access to a single lesser gift related to attacking or
damaging a target, allowing it to use the gift at its normal Effort
cost, assuming it has any.

[Elemental Harmonizer:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker gains an
invincible defense against an energy type such as fire, cold,
electricity, or the like. The harmonizer can be tuned to a different
element during a daily maintenance cycle.

[Eyes of Argus:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can penetrate fog, smoke,
and darkness with their sensors. On the godwalker\'s turn, it can tag a
single visible target and track their location unerringly within one
mile.

[Force Projection Jewel:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This ranged energy weapon has
a maximum range of up to a mile, if the target is visible, and does
1d8+4 damage. Against Mobs, this damage is rolled straight.

[Godwalker Repair Bay:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker has integral tools
sufficient to provide maintenance to itself or other godwalkers. It can
provide a daily maintenance cycle to itself or another godwalker with
six hours of effort. In extremis, it can provide a full field overhaul
of itself or another godwalker, but it takes a full week to do so,
albeit it requires no additional supplies or personnel.

[Halo of Wrath:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker sears enemies within 60
feet with a penumbra of divine wrath, inflicting a 1d10 damage die on
them at the start of its round\'s actions. Mobs suffer this damage
straight.

[Harvester Hand:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This attached melee weapon does 1d10+2
damage straight to lesser foes and mobs, but rolls its damage normally
against worthy foes.

[Improved Plating:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker\'s armor class is
improved by 2 points, to a minimum of AC 0.

[Incandescent Spur:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort. All combat movement
speeds of the godwalker are doubled while this component is operating.
This benefit does not extend to overland flight speeds.

[Jump Torpedoes:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the scene to launch
a salvo of torpedoes at a visible target. These torpedoes must be
launched from the water, but can briefly fly to impact targets within
1,000 feet of the water. Each salvo of torpedoes affects everything
within 100 feet of the target point, doing 5d6 damage to all creatures
and structures within that area, rolling damage straight against Mobs
largely in the area affected. If the target was unaware of the
godwalker\'s presence, the damage is automatically maximized.

[Keening Dread:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the scene. All
enemies currently being engaged by the godwalker must make a Morale
check.

[Kinetic Sump Vortex:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort. All enemies within
500 feet have their movement rate cut in half and lose initiative each
round in combat. The effect lasts for one round after the godwalker has
left or reclaimed their Effort. Worthy foes can roll a Hardiness saving
throw to resist the slowing for the scene.

[Mundane Weaponry:]{.Bolded-Run-In} These are purely mundane swords,
hammers, axes, or hurled projectiles that are extremely cheap to mount
on a godwalker, if perhaps inferior to more elaborate weaponry. Many of
them can be improvised simply by picking up something heavy. Despite
their mundane nature, the godwalker causes them to be treated as magic
weapons for the purpose of overcoming a target\'s defenses. Small
godwalkers do 1d8 damage with the weaponry, medium do 1d10, and large do
1d12. Thrown weapons do damage one die size smaller than a melee weapon,
and have a range of 200 feet.

[Noble Path Generator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort. The godbound has
solid footing regardless of the substance beneath them, whether stone,
water, or loose scree. They can cross pits and depressions horizontally
without falling.

[Oracular Combinator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can\'t be
surprised. On its turn, it can Commit Effort for the scene to predict
the most likely next action for a visible enemy or Mob. Worthy foes can
make a Spirit saving throw to conceal their purpose.

[Pious Construction Array:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can fix or
build damaged mundane structures and goods. A day of its labor is
equivalent to 100 skilled craftsmen for small armatures, 300 for medium,
and 900 for large. This benefit applies only to mundane repair skills,
and requires that raw materials be available on the site.

[Polymorphic Shaping Core:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can alter its
shape within its general dimensions, gaining a 40\' land or sea movement
rate by walking, propellers, or wheels if desired, or growing
manipulatory appendages. If desired, the entire godwalker can compress
its size down to something no larger than a horse. The core is not
sophisticated enough to grant flying modes of movement.

[Rainbow Bridge Emitter:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can Commit
Effort to summon a bridge between any two points in sight that are
within 1,000 feet of each other. This bridge is approximately thirty
feet wide and allows travel along its surface no matter how steep the
grade. The bridge has as many hit dice as the godwalker\'s maximum hit
dice. Users cannot be knocked off the bridge while they are alive or
while vehicles are functional. The godwalker can summon as many bridges
as they\'re willing to keep Effort Committed for.

[Reactive Adaptation Unit:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can Commit
Effort for the scene to render itself immune to a gift or power for the
rest of the scene. This affects only specific gifts or powers, and not
attacks or all effects of a particular type.

[Sanctified to the Word:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the scene
and pick a Word; the godwalker is treated as if it had bound to that
Word for purposes of resisting the [Corona of Fury]{.CharOverride-3} or
[Divine Wrath]{.CharOverride-3} gifts. The godwalker may also Commit
Effort for the day to defensively dispel powers of that Word used
against it. Multiple Effort points can be committed at once to bind
multiple Words.

[Stiletto Sutra Projector:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This esoteric weapon uses
the resonances of a ruinous sacred text to pierce gaping holes of
nonbeing into a single chosen target within 2,000 feet. The wielder may
choose to automatically hit the target for 1d8+2 straight damage or
instead make an attack roll, where a success will inflict an automatic
10 points of damage. The weapon\'s damage never overflows to additional
targets and it is effectively useless against Mobs. The sutra is
ineffective against automatons, undead, and other unliving targets, and
can\'t be fired more than once per round.

[Sustaining Recirculator:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker is
exceptionally efficient with its power supply. Where other godwalkers
must Commit Effort for the day for each day of operation, this armature
need only do so once per week.

[The Awl of Shifting Space:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can teleport
to a distance up to twice its normal movement rate as an action,
reaching any location within range that it can see or has formerly
occupied. This teleportation leaves behind any physical bindings or
restraints, but not magical ones.

[The Lance of Appointing:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This attached melee weapon
does 1d10 damage straight to single targets, but the excess damage done
does not overflow to other targets on a successful killing blow. Against
Mobs it rolls its damage normally.

[Transmutation Field:]{.Bolded-Run-In} With time and the appropriate
mudras, the godwalker can transform large amounts of matter from one
generally-consistent substance to another. Any non-magical substance up
to one ton in weight can be transmuted into another non-magical,
non-precious substance of equal mass with 12 hours of labor. This
ability cannot mold or shape the transmuted matter, but it\'s useful for
creating foodstuffs and other material necessities in the field.

[Trump of Judgment:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the scene. The
godwalker launches a building-flattening sonic barrage at everything
within 200 feet of a chosen target point in sight. The resonant
vibrations will powder any non-magical solid construction within that
zone and inflict a 1d12 damage die on creatures within it.

[Volley Negation Shield:]{.Bolded-Run-In} When attacked by a foe with
multiple attacks per action, only one of those attacks have any chance
to hit, but will do so for maximum damage if it connects. After the
first attack of the sequence hits, all others automatically miss. If the
enemy does not dedicate its entire attack sequence for an action against
the godwalker, none of the attacks have any chance to hit.

[Wingcutter Malediction:]{.Bolded-Run-In} This anti-air beam of
congealed curses strikes for 1d10 damage against airborne enemies and
rolls its damage straight against flying Mobs and flying lesser foes. It
automatically hits any aerial target, but is useless against
ground-bound foes.

[Wingjet Propulsion Unit:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The godwalker can fly at its
normal movement rate, including the ability to hover in place. This
component takes up two Wind chakra slots and isn\'t powerful enough to
lift anything bigger than a medium-sized sacred armature. Engines that
don\'t provide enough Wind slots might have to dedicate a Void slot to
cover part of the price.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer290 .Single-Column}
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| C        | Dominion | Slot  | Armature | Action   | Effects  |
| omponent |          |       | Min.     |          |          |
|          | Cost     |       | Size     | Type     |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Divine  | [5]{     | Fire  | Small    | Special  | [Enable  |
| Smiting  | .CharOve |       |          |          | a        |
| Ac       | rride-7} |       |          |          | combat   |
| tuator]{ |          |       |          |          | -related |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | lesser   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | gift]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Force   | [3]{     | Fire  | Small    | Constant | [Lo      |
| Pr       | .CharOve |       |          |          | ng-range |
| ojection | rride-7} |       |          |          | attack   |
| Jewel]{  |          |       |          |          | and      |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | Mob-c    |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | learer]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [H       | [3]{     | Fire  | Small    | Constant | [Does    |
| arvester | .CharOve |       |          |          | grave    |
| Hand]{   | rride-7} |       |          |          | harm to  |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | lesser   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | foes]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [The     | [3]{     | Fire  | Small    | Constant | [Singl   |
| Lance of | .CharOve |       |          |          | e-target |
| Appo     | rride-7} |       |          |          | o        |
| inting]{ |          |       |          |          | ffensive |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | melee    |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | weapon]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Mundane | [0]{     | Fire  | Small    | Constant | [Huge    |
| We       | .CharOve |       |          |          | mundane  |
| aponry]{ | rride-7} |       |          |          | we       |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | aponry]{ |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Jump    | [3]{     | Fire  | Medium   | Constant | [Sea-to  |
| Tor      | .CharOve |       |          |          | -surface |
| pedoes]{ | rride-7} |       |          |          | tor      |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | pedoes]{ |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Halo of | [3]{     | Fire  | Medium   | Constant | [Co      |
| Wrath]{  | .CharOve |       |          |          | nstantly |
| .CharOve | rride-7} |       |          |          | damage   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | nearby   |
|          |          |       |          |          | foes]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [        | [3]{     | Fire  | Medium   | Constant | [Singl   |
| Stiletto | .CharOve |       |          |          | e-target |
| Sutra    | rride-7} |       |          |          | armor-   |
| Pro      |          |       |          |          | piercing |
| jector]{ |          |       |          |          | bolt]{   |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Wi      | [3]{     | Fire  | Medium   | Constant | [Surfac  |
| ngcutter | .CharOve |       |          |          | e-to-air |
| Maled    | rride-7} |       |          |          | beam     |
| iction]{ |          |       |          |          | attack]{ |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [        | [4]{     | Fire  | Large    | Constant | [Fire a  |
| Devourer | .CharOve |       |          |          | cone of  |
| of       | rride-7} |       |          |          | c        |
| Armies]{ |          |       |          |          | onsuming |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | flame]{  |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Trump   | [4]{     | Fire  | Large    | Constant | [Blast a |
| of       | .CharOve |       |          |          | target   |
| Ju       | rride-7} |       |          |          | with a   |
| dgment]{ |          |       |          |          | sonic    |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | b        |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | arrage]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [        | [3]{     | Metal | Small    | Constant | [Gain    |
| Ablative | .CharOve |       |          |          | 20% of   |
| Blessing | rride-7} |       |          |          | hit dice |
| Seals]{  |          |       |          |          | as a     |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | buffer]{ |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Divine  | [5]{     | Metal | Small    | Special  | [Enable  |
| S        | .CharOve |       |          |          | a        |
| hielding | rride-7} |       |          |          | defense  |
| Ac       |          |       |          |          | -related |
| tuator]{ |          |       |          |          | lesser   |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | gift]{   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [        | [3]{     | Metal | Small    | Constant | [Improve |
| Improved | .CharOve |       |          |          | AC by 2  |
| P        | rride-7} |       |          |          | points]{ |
| lating]{ |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Sa      | [3]{     | Metal | Small    | Instant  | [Commit  |
| nctified | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| to the   | rride-7} |       |          |          | to       |
| Word]{   |          |       |          |          | resist   |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | Smiting  |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | gifts]{  |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [E       | [3]{     | Metal | Medium   | Constant | [In      |
| lemental | .CharOve |       |          |          | vincible |
| Harm     | rride-7} |       |          |          | defense  |
| onizer]{ |          |       |          |          | vs. an   |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | energy   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | type]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [        | [3]{     | Metal | Medium   | Instant  | [Commit  |
| Reactive | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| Ad       | rride-7} |       |          |          | for one  |
| aptation |          |       |          |          | im       |
| Unit]{   |          |       |          |          | munity]{ |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Volley  | [4]{     | Metal | Large    | Constant | [Mult    |
| Negation | .CharOve |       |          |          | i-attack |
| Shield]{ | rride-7} |       |          |          | foes can |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | only hit |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | once]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Banner  | [2]{     | Void  | Small    | On Turn  | [Commit  |
| of       | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| Zeal]{   | rride-7} |       |          |          | to raise |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | allied   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | Morale]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Crown   | [2]{     | Void  | Small    | Constant | [Keep in |
| of       | .CharOve |       |          |          | mind     |
| Comp     | rride-7} |       |          |          | contact  |
| anions]{ |          |       |          |          | with     |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | allies]{ |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Divine  | [4]{     | Void  | Small    | Special  | [Enable  |
| A        | .CharOve |       |          |          | a        |
| wareness | rride-7} |       |          |          | sense    |
| Ac       |          |       |          |          | -related |
| tuator]{ |          |       |          |          | lesser   |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | gift]{   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Eyes of | [2]{     | Void  | Small    | Constant | [See in  |
| Argus]{  | .CharOve |       |          |          | all      |
| .CharOve | rride-7} |       |          |          | con      |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | ditions; |
|          |          |       |          |          | tag an   |
|          |          |       |          |          | enemy]{  |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Clarion | [2]{     | Void  | Medium   | Action   | [Lo      |
| Call]{   | .CharOve |       |          |          | ng-range |
| .CharOve | rride-7} |       |          |          | te       |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | lepathic |
|          |          |       |          |          | c        |
|          |          |       |          |          | ontact]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [        | [3]{     | Void  | Medium   | Constant | [No      |
| Oracular | .CharOve |       |          |          | s        |
| Comb     | rride-7} |       |          |          | urprise. |
| inator]{ |          |       |          |          | Commit   |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | Effort   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | to       |
|          |          |       |          |          | p        |
|          |          |       |          |          | redict]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Keening | [3]{     | Void  | Large    | Action   | [Commit  |
| Dread]{  | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| .CharOve | rride-7} |       |          |          | to force |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | Morale   |
|          |          |       |          |          | check]{  |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Cargo   | [0]{     | Water | Small    | Special  | [Allow   |
| Space]{  | .CharOve |       |          |          | extra    |
| .CharOve | rride-7} |       |          |          | pa       |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | ssengers |
|          |          |       |          |          | or       |
|          |          |       |          |          | cargo]{  |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Divine  | [4]{     | Water | Small    | Special  | [Enable  |
| Aspect   | .CharOve |       |          |          | a        |
| Ac       | rride-7} |       |          |          | utility- |
| tuator]{ |          |       |          |          | oriented |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | lesser   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | gift]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Pious   | [2]{     | Water | Small    | Special  | [Build   |
| Cons     | .CharOve |       |          |          | or fix   |
| truction | rride-7} |       |          |          | mundane  |
| Array]{  |          |       |          |          | stru     |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | ctures]{ |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Pol     | [2]{     | Water | Small    | On Turn  | [Alter   |
| ymorphic | .CharOve |       |          |          | the      |
| Shaping  | rride-7} |       |          |          | godw     |
| Core]{   |          |       |          |          | alker\'s |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | general  |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | shape]{  |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Su      | [2]{     | Water | Small    | Constant | [Improve |
| staining | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| Recirc   | rride-7} |       |          |          | ef       |
| ulator]{ |          |       |          |          | ficiency |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | for      |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | ope      |
|          |          |       |          |          | ration]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Rainbow | [2]{     | Water | Medium   | Action   | [Create  |
| Bridge   | .CharOve |       |          |          | a bridge |
| E        | rride-7} |       |          |          | between  |
| mitter]{ |          |       |          |          | visible  |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | points]{ |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Trans   | [2]{     | Water | Medium   | Special  | [T       |
| mutation | .CharOve |       |          |          | ransmute |
| Field]{  | rride-7} |       |          |          | a ton of |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | matter   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | slowly]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Anchor  | [3]{     | Water | Large    | Special  | [Be the  |
| of the   | .CharOve |       |          |          | des      |
| Holy     | rride-7} |       |          |          | tination |
| Gate]{   |          |       |          |          | of a     |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | teleport |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | gate]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [G       | [3]{     | Water | Large    | Special  | [Provide |
| odwalker | .CharOve |       |          |          | mai      |
| Repair   | rride-7} |       |          |          | ntenance |
| Bay]{    |          |       |          |          | and      |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | ove      |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | rhauls]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Divine  | [4]{     | Wind  | Small    | Special  | [Enable  |
| Motion   | .CharOve |       |          |          | a        |
| Ac       | rride-7} |       |          |          | movement |
| tuator]{ |          |       |          |          | -related |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | lesser   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | gift]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Noble   | [2]{     | Wind  | Small    | Constant | [Cross   |
| Path     | .CharOve |       |          |          | any      |
| Gen      | rride-7} |       |          |          | surface  |
| erator]{ |          |       |          |          | without  |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | hin      |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | drance]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [The Awl | [2]{     | Wind  | Small    | Action   | [        |
| of       | .CharOve |       |          |          | Teleport |
| Shifting | rride-7} |       |          |          | short    |
| Space]{  |          |       |          |          | dis      |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | tances]{ |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Wingjet | [3]{     | Wind  | Small    | Constant | [Fly,    |
| Pr       | .CharOve |       |          |          | but it   |
| opulsion | rride-7} |       |          |          | takes up |
| Unit]{   |          |       |          |          | two      |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | chakra   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | slots]{  |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Inca    | [2]{     | Wind  | Medium   | On Turn  | [Commit  |
| ndescent | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| Spur]{   | rride-7} |       |          |          | to       |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | double   |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | move     |
|          |          |       |          |          | speed]{  |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Kinetic | [2]{     | Wind  | Medium   | Action   | [Commit  |
| Sump     | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| Vortex]{ | rride-7} |       |          |          | to slow  |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | enemy    |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | move]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Advance | [3]{     | Wind  | Large    | On Turn  | [Commit  |
| of the   | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| Iron     | rride-7} |       |          |          | to       |
| Tide]{   |          |       |          |          | im       |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | placably |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | charge]{ |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
| [Clavis  | [8]{     | Wind  | Large    | Action   | [Commit  |
| of       | .CharOve |       |          |          | Effort   |
| Night]{  | rride-7} |       |          |          | to open  |
| .CharOve |          |       |          |          | a Night  |
| rride-7} |          |       |          |          | Road]{   |
|          |          |       |          |          | .CharOve |
|          |          |       |          |          | rride-2} |
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer291 .Text-Frame}
Example Godwalkers

This page provides a selection of example godwalkers, either for
discovery as treasure, theft from a suitable foe, or as opponents for
the pantheon. The weaker godwalkers may not be enough of a fight
individually, but as minions of a powerful foe or in the company of Mobs
of allies they can still make a good brawl. A godwalker reduced to zero
hit dice is so much scrap without a dedicated construction facility, so
a GM is generally safe in allowing a pantheon to fight these foes
without worrying about them excessively pillaging the remains.

  ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------
  Unblinking Jade Eye                                                                                                                              
  [Armature:]{.CharOverride-7}   Peltast                                                                             [Engine:]{.CharOverride-7}    Tireless Flowing Water
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         4                                                                                   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}      60\' run or Awl teleport
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   14                                                                                  [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}      8+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +13 total                                                                           [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}    Harvester Hand
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     4                                                                                   [Actions:]{.CharOverride-7}   1 per combat round
  [Slotted:]{.CharOverride-7}    [Harvester Hand, Crown of Companions, The Awl of Shifting Space]{.CharOverride-2}                                 
  ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------

[Unblinking Jade Eye]{.CharOverride-2} is a godwalker of the Thousand
Gods in service to the divinity known as Mirrored Panther. Its most
common pilot is a tribal hero with a base attack bonus of +10, allowing
it a total hit bonus of +13. Mirrored Panther is not a particularly
great god by the measure of his neighbors, and [Unblinking Jade
Eye]{.CharOverride-2} is the only godwalker at its disposal. The
divinity is always planning to make more, but it is easily distracted by
events. Including its fittings, armature, and engine, [Unblinking Jade
Eye]{.CharOverride-2} cost 14 Dominion to build.

The godwalker is used to keep tributary villages in line. The Peltast
armature moves quickly, and the Tireless Flowing Water engine doesn\'t
require Effort to activate it each day, allowing [Unblinking Jade
Eye]{.CharOverride-2} to spend weeks in the field overawing the locals.
[Crown of Companions ]{.CharOverride-2}helps it keep in contact with its
patron\'s lieutenants, while [Harvester Hand]{.CharOverride-2} makes
short and bloody work of any native Mobs that might contest Mirrored
Panther\'s rule. If confronted by an opponent too strong to overcome,
[Unblinking Jade Eye]{.CharOverride-2} retreats, relying on the [Awl of
Shifting Space]{.CharOverride-2} to get away quickly.

  ------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------- ------------------------
  Without Repining                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  [Armature:]{.CharOverride-7}   Epitaph                                                                                                                                                [Engine:]{.CharOverride-7}    Celestial Lance
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         6                                                                                                                                                      [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}      40\' run, x2 with Spur
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   25                                                                                                                                                     [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}      6+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     pilot +2                                                                                                                                               [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}    As Lance of Appointing
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     6                                                                                                                                                      [Actions:]{.CharOverride-7}   2 per combat round
  [Slotted:]{.CharOverride-7}    [The Lance of Appointing, Halo of Wrath, Reactive Adaptation Unit, Oracular Combinator, Sustaining Recirculator, Incandescent Spur]{.CharOverride-2}                                 
  ------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------- ------------------------

Forgotten in an ancient Ren invasion depot, [Without
Repining]{.CharOverride-2} was once a proud field combatant built to
overwhelm Khamite armies with a [Halo of Wrath]{.CharOverride-2} and
smite down their heroes with the [Lance of Appointing]{.CharOverride-2},
while operating for long periods of limited maintenance with its
[Sustaining Recirculator]{.CharOverride-2}. Now, the godwalker that cost
the True King 30 Dominion points to build lies silent and still in its
rack.

  ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----------------------------
  Gentleman Who Holds the Whip                                                                                                                                                               
  [Armature:]{.CharOverride-7}   Che                                                                                                                           [Engine:]{.CharOverride-7}    Chariot of War
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3                                                                                                                             [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}      50\' hover or Awl teleport
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   20                                                                                                                            [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}      7+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     pilot +1                                                                                                                      [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}    As Focused Proj. Jewel
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     6                                                                                                                             [Actions:]{.CharOverride-7}   1 per combat round
  [Slotted:]{.CharOverride-7}    [Force Projection Jewel, Improved Plating, Eyes of Argus, Pious Construction Array, Awl of Shifting Space]{.CharOverride-2}                                 
  ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----------------------------

A combat transport for the ancient Ren invasion force that became
Dulimbai, the [Gentleman Who Holds the Whip]{.CharOverride-2} was
characteristic of their philosophy. While an effective tank against
Khamite Mobs with its [Force Projection Jewel]{.CharOverride-2}, its
main function was to get Ren heroes and VIPs deeper into a battle. Its
[Improved Plating]{.CharOverride-2} allowed it to shrug off
otherwise-ruinous impacts, and its [Eyes of Argus]{.CharOverride-2}
permitted easy night operation. Perhaps not least, its [Pious
Construction Array]{.CharOverride-2} was of substantial use in
fortifying camps and repairing transport infrastructure.

While of great use in the field, the most significant limitation to the
godwalker\'s utility is its limited endurance. Without swapping out its
sensors or construction array for a [Sustaining
Recirculator]{.CharOverride-2} it won\'t be able to function for more
than six days without receiving a maintenance cycle, due to its
engine\'s daily Effort cost.

A modern recreation of the [Gentleman Who Holds the
Whip]{.CharOverride-2} would cost an artificer-divinity 20 Dominion.

  ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------
  The Gatekeeper                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  [Armature:]{.CharOverride-7}   Grigori                                                                                                                                                                           [Engine:]{.CharOverride-7}    Shining Titan
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         4                                                                                                                                                                                 [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}      40\' run, x2 with Spur
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   35                                                                                                                                                                                [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}      5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +15 total                                                                                                                                                                         [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}    As Lance of Appointing
  [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                                                                                                                                                                                [Actions:]{.CharOverride-7}   3 per combat round
  [Slotted:]{.CharOverride-7}    [The Lance of Appointing, Devourer of Armies, Wingcutter Malediction, Volley Negation Shield, Sanctified to the Word, Godwalker Repair Bay, Incandescent Spur]{.CharOverride-2}                                 
  ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------

Somewhere amid the fallen halls of Heaven, a great storehouse of
celestial shards and other treasures is said to have been erected by a
Made God now long disappeared. To protect his trove, he appointed an
undying guardian and fashioned for this being a godwalker of sublime
power. In conjunction with a small army of lesser automatons, this
guardian was to protect the treasure until the Made God returned to
reclaim it. That never came to pass.

Now, the Gatekeeper waits patiently, as they have for a thousand years.
They maintain their host of mechanical guardians and repel the
occasional army from a realm that dreams of seizing the fragments of
celestial power. The Gatekeeper\'s designer envisioned it as being used
chiefly against armies led by a few mortal heroes or theurges, and the
godwalker\'s fittings are exceedingly effective at eliminating such
armies. Against a small group of Godbound, it must rely more on its
escort automatons to deliver enough focused damage.

Should a modern artificer seek to replicate the Gatekeeper and its
components, it would come to the fabulous price of 48 Dominion.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer292 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor192}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker366}Martial
Strifes

Conflict is woven into the fabric of the world. Even in the absence of
conscious will, there is a struggle between flowing water and crumbling
stone, between ravenous fire and wet green wood, between even the
bird\'s feathered wing and the gravity that drags it down. These
superficial contentions are echoes of deeper truths, shadows in the
waking world of the True Strifes that strain the gears of the engines of
Heaven.

The True Strifes have existed as modes of physical struggle since before
the Shattering. Ancient sages and secret adepts took instruction from
the nature of the world and the revelations of their own contemplations,
and so learned how to make these abstract principles into tangible forms
of fist and will. These adepts were never many, and the True Strifes
were never widely known, but some few among the myriad nations of the
Former Empires always were there to teach the worthy---or those skilled
in seeming so.

Usually only a supernatural entity is capable of learning the techniques
of a True Strife. Without the native ability to connect with the deep
principles of creation, the aspiring adept is unable to channel the True
Strife\'s power. Parasite gods, mighty Eldritch, sorcerous Misbegotten,
or stranger constructs all might qualify to learn a True Strife\'s power
if they have sufficient will and a suitable mentor. Even otherwise
mortal humans can sometimes attain to the mastery of a True Strife, but
this requires a near-superhuman degree of discipline and spiritual
cultivation in order to forge that first essential connection with the
deeper truths of the world. Those who lack this discipline sometimes buy
their way into supernatural power by means of pacts with greater
entities.

Instead, for every mortal master of the True Strifes, there are a
thousand adepts who study the lesser Strifes. These are pale echoes of
the deeper truths, simplified and abridged techniques that utilize those
principles that even mortal practitioners can hope to master. Their
techniques are far weaker than those of their True counterparts, but a
determined disciple can hope to master one without terrible dangers to
their spiritual integrity or bargains made with dangerous powers. The
lesser Strifes are more common by far in human cultures, and most lands
have at least a few known places of instruction for them, if not more
common teachers. Any adept of a True Strife can always teach the
principles of the lesser version, even if they have not personally
bothered to master its petty arts.

The techniques revealed in this chapter are not the only arts of
conflict. Aside from the host of mysterious True Strifes cultivated by
hidden masters, there are also those techniques and styles that tap into
forbidden arts and dangerous celestial energies. Some of these forbidden
methods can grant even a mortal tremendous power, but it always comes at
a ruinous cost: madness, cancerous malformation, inevitable damnation,
or hideously immoral sacrifices.

Most of the forbidden techniques are long since lost, but there are
always those restless and power-hungry students who balk at nothing and
are willing to seek out these dark secrets to augment their own might.
Some entire schools of forbidden study are known in certain realms,
where heartless adepts vie with each other in their depravities in order
to become master of these black monasteries. There are even persistent
tales of entire Strifes composed of these diabolical methods, \"Black
Strifes\" that grant tremendous power to hopelessly damned masters.

Learning the Strifes

Learning a True Strife is generally restricted to a supernatural entity.
A Godbound hero, an angel, a parasite god, an undead lich-lord... any
creature that qualifies as \"more than human\" has the requisite
connection to learn a True Strife. Ordinary mortals who have mastered a
lesser Strife and have remarkable reserves of talent and dedication can
sometimes master the True Strife as well through sheer force of will and
determination. This process transforms them into a supernatural hero in
their own right if they aren\'t already, often with enhanced abilities
related to the Strife.

Learning any Strife, True or lesser, requires a source of instruction.
For Godbound and other creatures that bind to Words, possession of an
appropriate Word gives an intuitive grasp of the principles of a Strife,
one sufficient to teach a diligent student. The Sea Word would teach the
Strife of the Drowning Tide, for example, or the Beast Word would give
hints to the Strife of the Hunting Beast. It\'s the GM\'s decision as to
whether or not a given Word is sufficient justification. Without this,
the pupil must find a teacher who has mastered the techniques they
desire to learn or a secret manual that explains the Strife\'s arts.

True Strifes are learned in a particular order. First, the pupil learns
the entrance technique for the art, the first technique listed in the
Strife\'s description. Learning this technique costs one point, the same
as learning a lesser gift. Next, the student learns any or all of the
four following gifts that form the body of the art, paying one half of a
point for each. Once all five earlier techniques are mastered, the adept
may perfect the finishing technique of the Strife for one gift point.
Thus, completely mastering a Strife costs four gift points.

Lesser Strifes are much easier to learn, though they too require a
suitable source of instruction. Any sufficiently dedicated pupil can
learn them, though it\'s usually a work of decades for a normal mortal.
Godbound can learn all three levels of a Strife\'s lesser art for the
cost of one gift point, or by dedicating one Fact to it. For example,
\"I learned the lesser Strife of the Drowning Tide from the sea-priests
of the Kasirutan islands.\" might be a Fact taken at character creation
or picked up later as the hero gains an experience level.

Teaching Mortals the Strifes

It is possible for Godbound and other divine leaders to imbue their
loyal servants with the secrets of the Strifes. Teaching full mastery of
a lesser Strife to one\'s mortal servitors is usually an Improbable
task, becoming Impossible if more than one lesser Strife is to be
mastered by the same minions. Opening the secrets of a True Strife to a
servitor who has already mastered the lesser version is an Improbable
task, but it can only be performed for one minion at a time, and it only
teaches them the entrance technique. Thus, the first technique taught to
one mortal minion will usually cost 2 Dominion. Each additional
technique to be taught is a separate Probable task which must also be
performed one minion at a time, costing 1 Dominion in most cases. To
teach a mortal the full mastery of a True Strife thus costs 7 Dominion
points. Minions so graced become heroic mortals of a level equal to the
PC teacher\'s level, and can take talents accordingly.

Teaching an entire group the secrets of a True Strife would be an
Impossible working at the least, and likely require a good deal of
celestial salvage in the form of instructional texts and exemplary
devices.

Using the Strifes

Strifes require particular techniques and spiritual states, ones that
aren\'t necessarily compatible with all forms of armor and weaponry.
Each Strife notes the allowed armor and weapons to the style. Adepts who
are wearing excessively heavy armor or wielding unsuitable weapons
cannot use any of the lesser or True Strife\'s techniques and get no
benefit from Constant techniques they\'ve learned. Exotic forms of armor
are treated as their mundane equivalents; heavy regalia armor counts as
heavy armor for purposes of the Strife even if it\'s nothing more than
an enchanted loincloth. The style\'s allowed weapons count as unarmed
attacks for purposes of techniques that boost such blows.

Strifes naturally conflict in their techniques. Heroes who know more
than one Strife must choose one to use at the start of a combat scene
and cannot use the techniques of any other, including Constant
techniques. Masters who spend an extra gift point may integrate all of
their current and future completely-mastered styles, allowing them to
use all such freely at the same time, with the least restrictive armor
and weapon choices applicable to all. This integration applies only to
Strifes that have been completely mastered; partially-learned True
Strifes aren\'t familiar enough to integrate with other techniques.

True Strife techniques count as divine gifts for purposes of overcoming
mortal magics and resisting attempts at dispelling them. Lesser Strifes
are less potent, and are treated as low magic techniques when that
concern is relevant.

Creating New Strifes

It\'s to be expected that the GM or players might want to add additional
Strifes to their campaign, or introduce new techniques into existing
ones. These extra techniques wouldn\'t count for purposes of mastering
the Strife, which would still only require learning the entrance
technique, the four following arts, and the finishing technique.

Techniques should always be directly applicable to combat. Strifes are
about fighting; they should not contain techniques that do are mostly
about doing something irrelevant to combat or conflict. Techniques
should never simply add a flat bonus to the adept\'s rolls. Each one
should either give them a new maneuver option in combat, a new combat
ability, or a very large boost to their dice in a specific kind of
circumstance. In general, techniques should be weaker than lesser gifts,
largely by being much narrower in application.

Lesser Strifes might have alternate talents taught by heterodox
instructors or developed by inspired teachers. If you\'re running a
campaign where such minor talents matter, such as a game focusing on
mortal PCs, you might award such talents free to any PC who finds a
teacher, or let them commit one of their level-up Facts to devising new
ones. The techniques themselves should echo the True Strife\'s
abilities; the general idea should be lesser Strife techniques are all
weaker, more limited versions of what the True Strife can do.

The Strifes That Follow

In the following pages you\'ll find eight True Strifes for the
delectation of your martial heroes. Each one describes how the Strife
works, lists the True Strife techniques, and covers the three degrees of
lesser Strife mastery. Each also includes a pre-made antagonist
practitioner of the True Strife to serve as an opponent, a dubious ally,
or a greater foe\'s lieutenant. As written, the NPCs should be a serious
threat to a group of Godbound heroes, but if you plan to use them in an
exclusively mortal campaign, you should consider having them roll their
damage dice regularly rather than counting them straight.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer293 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor193}The
Strife
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker367}of
the Bitter Rival

The greatest accomplishments are the fruit of well-matched struggle. A
rival can be the kind of goad that no lesser prod can be, inspiring the
warrior to new heights of ferocity if only to prove themselves the
greater. The Strife of the Bitter Rival embodies this violence and
strengthens its adepts when they face their chosen rivals.

This Strife is a superb dueling style, and it excels when the adept has
only a single enemy to face. Against several fearsome opponents or a
swirling mob of bodies, its techniques have less utility.

The Lesser Strife

The lesser Strife is potent when dueling a single opponent, but useless
when multiple foes are involved in a fray, even if they\'re not
attacking the adept. It is a fashionable art in Vissio, where its lust
for competitive excellence appeals to the local character. Many Vissian
lordlings boast of their talent with the Strife, and only some of these
boasts are lies.

[Initiate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} When fighting a solitary opponent in single
combat, the initiate can roll hit rolls twice and take the better
result.

[Disciple:]{.Bolded-Run-In} When fighting a single opponent, the
disciple may automatically succeed at a saving throw against a power
their enemy uses once per scene, if a save is allowed.

[Master:]{.Bolded-Run-In} When fighting a single opponent, the master
gains one bonus attack each round as long as no other allies have yet
engaged the opponent or aided the master.

  ------------------------------ --------------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------
  Signore Dottore Gavazzi                                                           
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3, in regalia armor   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   20                    [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +12 x 3               [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8+2 rapier straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10                    [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   6
  ------------------------------ --------------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------

Signore Dottore Gavazzi once graced the Order of Redactors with his
illustrious talents as an assassin. Countless enemies of the Order fell
to his clockwork blades and extravagant talents of violence, but
unfortunately, the esteemed Dottore became too wrapped up in the Strife
which won him such fame. His Vissian obsession with personal excellence
and his need for greater rivals eventually led him to break from the
Order, and now he roams in constant search of worthy foes.

Gavazzi has attained mastery of the True Strife of the Bitter Rival and
has extensively augmented himself with Vissian clockwork prostheses.
Combined with his supernatural talents of subtlety, his skills grant him
the Words of Alacrity and Deception and the ability to automatically
succeed at saving throws by Committing Effort as a Godbound does.
Gavazzi gets two actions per round.

The Vissian understands the limits of his capabilities but is constantly
seeking out enemies that can test them. Gavazzi is positively friendly
toward his chosen rivals, always letting them know beforehand of their
signal honor and expressing his deep appreciation of their many fine
qualities. He will kill them, of course, but their friends and
associates are entirely safe from the blademaster provided they do not
interfere with the rivalry. Sadly, his target\'s friends have a
regrettable tendency to obtrude into the affair all the same, so he
takes pains to line up allies and minions beforehand to better occupy
those other hands.

Gavazzi has hired out as a henchman for powerful supernatural creatures
on occasion, usually serving only long enough to earn the resources he
needs to pursue his eternal hunt.

  ------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  Techniques of the Bitter Rival                                                                       
  [Name Their Doom]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                   Choose a rival in a fight
                                                               [Excel Their Stroke]{.CharOverride-3}   Hit a rival after they miss
                                                               [While They Live]{.CharOverride-3}      Fight on while a rival stands
                                                               [Shed Their Snares]{.CharOverride-3}    More easily save versus rivals
                                                               [When They Hide]{.CharOverride-3}       Know a rival's position always
  [Fill Their Grave]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                  Flurry constant blows at a rival
  This Strife allows any armor or weapon to be used with it.                                           
  ------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------- ----------------------------------

  ----------------- ----------------------------
  Name Their Doom   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. Choose a single individual within sight as a rival. Until
the rival is defeated, flees, or the scene ends, a new rival cannot be
chosen, nor can the technique be ended. All hit rolls the adept makes
against the rival may be rolled twice, and the better taken. All hit
rolls the adept makes against anyone else are rolled twice, and the
worst taken. Mobs cannot be selected as rivals.

  --------------------- ----------------------------
  Excel Their Strokes   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. While committed, if the rival misses an attack roll in a
turn against any target, the adept's next hit roll against them is
automatically successful. Attack rolls that are blocked or negated by a
gift don't count as misses, nor do resisted supernatural powers.

  ----------------- ----------------------------
  While They Live   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------- ----------------------------

If the adept is reduced to zero hit points while the rival is still
active, the adept may Commit Effort for the day and instantly regain two
hit points per level, or a quarter of their hit dice for creatures
without levels. This technique can be used only once per scene.

  ------------------- -----------------------------
  Shed Their Snares   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------- -----------------------------

When the adept Commits Effort to auto-save against a rival\'s power to
defensively dispel one of their supernatural attacks, it may be
reclaimed at the end of the scene, rather than the end of the day.

  ---------------- -----------------------------
  When They Hide   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------- -----------------------------

The adept is always aware of their rival's exact location and general
activities while the scene is still underway, and may fight them without
penalty even while unable to see or detect the rival otherwise.

  ------------------ ----------------------------
  Fill Their Grave   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. The adept's weapon or unarmed attack attempts
against the rival gain one bonus attack per round until a round when
none of their attacks or hostile powers hit the rival. Attacks blocked
by magic, gifts, or successful saving throws still count as a hit for
purposes of this technique. If the technique is ended, the adept may
trigger the technique again on the next round by committing more Effort
for the day. While this art is in effect, they are unable to target
attacks, hostile effects, or Fray dice against anyone but their rival,
albeit other foes might be caught in area effects.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer294 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor194}The
Strife
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker368}of
the Broken Earth

The solid surety of earth can vanish in a moment when a quake breaks the
soil or a landslide strips away the ground beneath a man\'s feet. The
Strife of the Broken Earth mimics that catastrophic upheaval, shaking
what is solid and defying what is secure.

The Strife of the Broken Earth is particularly effective for smashing
inanimate objects and destroying fortifications. It has few attacks
meant to instantly overwhelm a foe, but instead focuses on grinding,
remorseless assaults that eventually wear down the strongest enemy.
Fleeing is useless when even the ground beneath you seeks your death.

The Lesser Strife

The lesser strife of the Broken Earth emphasizes crushing blows and
shattering strikes. Adepts are capable of smashing thick walls of stone,
though their arts are not equally applicable to wooden barriers.

[Initiate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The initiate never slips or falls on an
earthen or stone surface, and their unarmed attacks do 1d6 damage.

[Disciple:]{.Bolded-Run-In} By focusing, the adept can break stones with
their blows, smashing a foot-thick barrier with a minute\'s effort.

[Master:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the scene to ignore any
metal armor on a foe. The master\'s unarmed blows do 1d8 damage per hit.

  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------
  The Shaken Lady                                                            
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3, intrinsic   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   25             [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +12 x 2        [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 strike straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10             [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   7
  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------

The Shaken Lady is an unfortunate product of the eugenic cults of the
Oasis States. The culmination of several centuries of careful cross- and
inbreeding among several allied noble houses, she was to be a perfected
vessel for the terrestrial powers of stone and sand. Something went
wrong in the breeding process, however, and the Shaken Lady was born a
frail, trembling girl wholly unserviceable for that end.

Enduring years of disappointment and scorn from her family, she nursed a
growing hatred for her kinsmen and society. Unbeknownst to her
progenitors, the seeds of terrestrial power were still in the girl, and
required only a sufficient time to manifest. When it did, much of the
pyramid level she occupied collapsed in the ensuing chaos. She escaped
to the desert, where she was found by a sand prince who recognized her
value to his cause.

Since then, the \"Shaken Lady\" as she\'s known has become a relentless
scourge to the pyramids of the Oasis States. She nurses an unquenchable
hatred of the pyramid-dwellers, and would delight in seeing them all
dead, down to the infants in their mothers\' arms. She justifies this to
herself as a noble hatred of the eugenic cults, but in truth, she simply
wants the universal slaughter of those who despised her.

The Shaken Lady has mastered the True Strife of the Broken Earth, and
has an innate bond to the Words of Might and Earth. She is
unprepossessing in appearance, looking like a small and very pretty
Oasian teenager with a noticeable tremor to her limbs and an occasional
stuttering catch to her voice. To comment on these tics is to invite
immediate and spectacular death, but she holds jealously to her current
alias as a reminder of her suffering.

The Shaken Lady can Commit Effort to automatically save versus effects,
and gains two actions per round in combat.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- --------------------------------
  Techniques of the Broken Earth                                                                           
  [Avalanche Stride]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                      Churn the earth in your wake
                                                                   [Load Bearing]{.CharOverride-3}         Uphold any weight
                                                                   [Rocks Fall]{.CharOverride-3}           Your blows crush stone
                                                                   [No Walls Stand]{.CharOverride-3}       Ignore metal armor and shields
                                                                   [Gray Jaws Champing]{.CharOverride-3}   Topple buildings and objects
  [Under This Red Rock]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                   Hit a target from any range
  This Strife may be used with any armor and with melee weapons.                                           
  ---------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- --------------------------------

  ------------------ ----------------------------
  Avalanche Stride   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. The adept never slips or falls on earth or
stone, and can traverse such surfaces even vertically or upside-down. If
they end the round standing on earth or stone, they create shockwaves in
the material that do 1d8 damage to all foes within 10 feet of them.
These waves don\'t harm the surface, and as they cause area-effect
damage the die is rolled straight against Mobs in melee with the adept.

  -------------- ----------------------------
  Load Bearing   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort. The adept becomes impossible to crush by simple weight.
Attacks affect them normally, but collapsing ceilings, encroaching wall
traps, and falling weights can't harm them. If they spend their action,
they can move up to half their normal movement rate, either carrying the
object atop them or pushing through debris and rubble.

  ------------ -----------------------------
  Rocks Fall   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------ -----------------------------

Your unarmed attacks are treated as a magical weapon doing 1d10 damage.
Your blows can make a man-sized hole in earth or stone up to six feet
deep per round.

  ---------------- ----------------------------
  No Walls Stand   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene to ignore all stone or metal armor or
shields used by opponents. For ordinary human NPCs wearing metal armor,
it can be assumed that they are AC 9 without it.

  -------------------- ---------------------------
  Gray Jaws Champing   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------- ---------------------------

Strike a structure or immobile object no larger than a small house and
cause the earth to crack and grind beneath it. Wagon-sized things are
smashed in one round, lightly-built houses in two, and sturdy
fortifications in four. The collapse will inflict 1d20 damage on anyone
who remains inside the structure when it falls, but anyone who can move
can dive or dodge clear of the crevice before suffering damage. Mobile
vehicles also move too quickly to be affected by this technique.

  --------------------- ---------------------------
  Under This Red Rock   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and choose a target you've hit during the
scene. For the next ten minutes you may attack that opponent as if they
were adjacent to you, regardless of their distance, cover, or whether
you know their location, so long as they\'re on the ground.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer295 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor195}The
Strife
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker369}of
the Consuming Flame

The light that burns, the heat that sears and blackens, the purity that
comes from combustion... all these things are the purview of the
Consuming Flame. Adepts of the True Flame can burn their own life force
to ensure that their attacks strike home. The instinctive terror of
flame scourges their foes, and the indiscriminate hunger of their fire
devours the foes that surround them. Practitioners of this art are often
marked by their ferocity and self-sacrificial violence.

The Lesser Strife

The lesser Strife of the Consuming Flame focuses on sacrificial strikes
and counterattacks, opening the practitioner to enemies in order to
ensure their blows strike home.

[Initiate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The initiate gains an immunity to mundane
flame, and their unarmed attacks inflict 1d6 damage.

[Disciple:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Once per round, the disciple may
automatically counterattack a melee opponent who strikes at the martial
artist, rolling a single hit roll and damage normally.

[Master:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The master's unarmed attacks inflict 1d8 flame
damage. Once per round, the master may reroll a missed attack roll by
accepting a 1d8+2 damage die worth of injury. This damage may not be
avoided and this reroll may only be attempted once per round.

  ------------------------------ --------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  Lawful Pyre-Born                                                                  
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3, in regalia armor   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   25                    [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +12 x 2               [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 fiery straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12                    [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   8
  ------------------------------ --------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

The antipriests of Lom are lords of that cold and unhappy land, but some
among them desire a higher rank among their peers than their own talents
would otherwise justify. The most ambitious of these petitioners seek
leave to enter the Pyre, a holy artifact that imbues its subjects with
the power to silence divine miracles. Unfortunately, nine-tenths of
those who enter the Pyre are rendered simpletons by the holy flames,
childlike Stiflers treated little better than animals by their
god-hunting handlers. Those that survive with their intellects intact,
however, can expect glorious advancement in the hierarchy.

Lawful Architect was one such petitioner, but the Pyre did more than the
antipriests anticipated. When he emerged from the flames of reason,
Lawful Pyre-Born was gifted with an intrinsic bond with the Word of
Fire. Such was Lawful\'s zeal that he refrained from seeking higher rank
in the Holy Colloquy, and now leads a band of Lomite antipriests in
campaigns against parasite gods and newly-awakened Godbound who might
threaten the atheocracy\'s grip on Lom.

Aside from mastery of the True Strife of the Consuming Flame and the
Word of Fire, Lawful also has the intrinsic abilities of a Lomite
Stifler. Much like an Uncreated, he can use [The Cold
Breath]{.CharOverride-3} to force any Godbound in his presence to Commit
two points of Effort before they can Commit Effort to activate any gift.
Lawful has the power to Commit Effort to automatically succeed at saving
throws and takes two actions per round in combat.

Lawful is always accompanied by a crew of elite Lomite heroes, and
carefully studies his foes before he moves to attack. He is utterly
committed to True Reason, and fears the Godbound are merely the
harbingers of an age of divine tyranny over humanity.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  Techniques of the Consuming Flame                                                                         
  [Ignite the Pyre]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                        Mantle yourself in flames
                                                                   [Blaze of Conviction]{.CharOverride-3}   Reroll a miss, at a cost in pain
                                                                   [A Hand of Ashes]{.CharOverride-3}       Strike with terrifying flames
                                                                   [Burn Clean]{.CharOverride-3}            Purge your poisons or sickness
                                                                   [An Unfettered Flame]{.CharOverride-3}   Become insubstantial briefly
  [A Consuming Fury]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                       Burst explosively, at a cost
  This Strife may be used with any armor and with melee weapons.                                            
  ---------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------------------------------

  ----------------- ---------------------------
  Ignite the Pyre   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------- ---------------------------

Gain an invincible defense against flame or smoke. Commit Effort to
shroud the adept in a mantle of flame that burns only what they wish.
When shrouded, melee foes automatically suffer a 1d8 damage die before
resolving an attack against the adept. A victim can suffer this damage
only once per round, even if they make multiple attacks.

  --------------------- ----------------------------
  Blaze of Conviction   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------- ----------------------------

If the adept misses with an unarmed attack, they can suffer an
unavoidable 1d8+2 damage die and roll the attack again. They may use
this power repeatedly on the same attack, but the harm increases by
another 1d8+2 die after each consecutive use on the same missed blow.

  ----------------- -----------------------------
  A Hand of Ashes   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------- -----------------------------

The adept's unarmed attacks count as a 1d8 weapon that inflicts fire
damage if desired. Once per scene, they can force a target or Mob struck
by their attacks to make an immediate Morale check at -2 against the
terror of their flames unless the target is immune to fire.

  ------------ ----------------------------
  Burn Clean   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------ ----------------------------

If afflicted by a hostile magical effect, poison, or disease, the adept
may suffer a quarter of the inflictor's maximum hit dice in hit point
damage to purge the effect with flames. If the effect was not caused by
a creature, the adept takes a 1d20 damage die to purge it.

  --------------------- ---------------------------
  An Unfettered Flame   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------- ---------------------------

The adept's body partially transforms to flame for a moment, allowing
them to escape any bonds or grapples or pass through tiny cracks. The
adept can move up to 30 feet as part of this power, and automatically
inflicts one point of damage per level to any creature or substance
trying to restrain them. Using this power more than once in a scene
requires them to Commit Effort for the scene each further time.

  ------------------ -----------------------------------
  A Consuming Fury   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------ -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. The adept expends their life force to erupt
in a pillar of flame with a thirty-foot radius. The adept may inflict up
to 1d10 damage dice per level to all selected targets within the area,
up to a 10d10 maximum, but they also take the same number of dice of
damage and cannot mitigate the injury with any of their powers.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer296 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor196}The
Strife
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker370}of
the Drowning Tide

Waves beat tirelessly on the shore, grinding mountains to silt and
swallowing nations whole. The Strife of the Drowning Tide mimics that
all-consuming ruin, flowing in and crushing the multitudes that would
dare oppose its adepts. While less efficient against a single potent
foe, the Strife has ways of swiftly washing away packs of lesser
enemies.

The Lesser Strife

The sea-priests of the Kasirutan isles are known to practice this lesser
Strife, and through them more than one pirate or merchant\'s guardsman
has learned something of its secrets.

[Initiate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The initiate can breathe underwater and
gains a 1d4 Fray die.

[Disciple:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The disciple's unarmed attacks are treated
as weapons that do 1d8 damage. As an action, they can move their full
movement rate through the most tightly-packed crowd of foes without
drawing melee attacks.

[Master:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Commit Effort for the scene. The master whirls
through the space around them, inflicting one action's worth of melee
attacks on all chosen targets within thirty feet of their position. They
must end their action at the location they began.

  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------
  Salt Lady Lastri                                                           
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3, intrinsic   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run or swim
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   30             [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +12 x 2        [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10+2 blow straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10             [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   8
  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------

People of the eastern isles say that Lastri\'s father was a sea-god with
teeth of coral and skin of white salt. His daughter was born with
pearl-white eyes and a terrifying relentlessness, a determination that
drove her to the captaincy of her own ship before she was eighteen. In
the ten years since, her name has become a byword for bloodstained
plundering and the reaping of fat merchantmen. Even other Kasirutan
ships are fair game to the Salt Lady when her ship is on the prowl.

Between her natural gifts and unnatural potencies, mastery of the True
Strife of the Drowning Tide came instinctively to Lastri. Whether by her
bloodline or by rumored bargains with powers of the deep waves, she has
gained arts akin to the Words of Sea and Endurance, and is always first
over the rail when boarding her prey. She can Commit Effort for the day
to automatically save as a Godbound can, and she acts twice a round in
combat.

Lastri terrifies her crew almost as much as she does her prey. As is the
Kasirutan custom, she\'ll sail only with a crew of other women, one she
keeps in line with brutal punishments and iron-fisted discipline. Her
hellions have burnt villages and raided towns all along the Nezdohvan
and Raktine coasts, ranging as far north as the Dry Ports of the Oasis
States and around the Thousand Gods to chew at Dulimbai\'s belly. She\'s
taught her veteran crew the secrets of the lesser Strife of the Drowning
Tide, and they rejoice in the opportunity to use it.

Lastri\'s great ambition is to be named Pirate Queen, but her history of
casual fratricide toward other Kasirutan ships has left the islands\'
datus and great captains bitterly resentful toward her. While she\'s
idly entertained thoughts of mass murder to bring them around, she
thinks that some legendary raid on a great city might be more effective.
To do that, of course, she needs allies and funds for a fleet, and she
is quite ready to aid those who can get these things for her.

  --------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------------------------
  Techniques of the Drowning Tide                                                                               
  [Water Red and White]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                        Your wounds attack your foes
                                                                  [Undertow Hand]{.CharOverride-3}              Crush Mobs with your blows
                                                                  [The Tide Comes In]{.CharOverride-3}          Charge through barriers
                                                                  [Stone Cast on the Strand]{.CharOverride-3}   Hurl a foe back with a blow
                                                                  [The Tide Goes Out]{.CharOverride-3}          Leap back from attack flurries
  [The Mountains Wash Away]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                    Crush and drown nearby foes
  This Strife allows any armor and any two-handed melee weapon.                                                 
  --------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------------------------

  --------------------- -----------------------------
  Water Red and White   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------- -----------------------------

The adept can breathe water, see clearly underwater in the absence of
light, and ignores the cold and pressure of the depths. Their wounds
lash out with tendrils of gore. Each time they\'re hit and take damage,
they can apply their Fray die to the attacker, even if a worthy foe.

  --------------- -----------------------------
  Undertow Hand   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------- -----------------------------

The adept's unarmed attack is treated as a magical weapon that does 1d10
damage. Against Mobs, this damage is rolled straight if the Godbound
delays their attack until after the Mob's actions for the round.

  ------------------- ---------------------------
  The Tide Comes In   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------- ---------------------------

The adept can move their full movement rate in a straight line. They
have an invincible defense against harm during this movement and can
charge through a line of foes or any non-magical barrier or wall less
than two feet thick without slowing.

  -------------------------- ----------------------------
  Stone Cast on the Strand   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------- ----------------------------

On a successful hit, the adept may halve the damage inflicted, rounded
up, and hurl the target straight back up to thirty feet. No extra damage
is done by the throw even if the target is stopped by a barrier, but
they must spend their movement action rising next turn. Worthy foes may
make a Hardiness save to resist the throw.

  ------------------- ----------------------------
  The Tide Goes Out   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. On a hit, the adept may choose to be thrown
back thirty feet, landing on their feet. If the assailant is a creature
with multiple attacks and meant to launch several at the adept, the
remainder are wasted. If the adept is pinned against a wall or other
obstruction, they cannot benefit from this technique.

  ------------------------- -----------------------------------
  The Mountains Wash Away   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------- -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. All Mobs and lesser foes within fifty feet
are inundated with salt water and blood, quenching flames, smashing
light construction, and inflicting 1d8 damage per level or hit die of
the adept, rounded up, up to a 10d8 maximum. If used more often than
once per scene, the adept takes the same damage inflicted with no
possible mitigation of it. The drowning fluids vanish after they do
their damage and have no effect on worthy foes.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer297 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor197}The
Strife
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker371}of
the Dying Hour

With time comes death and dissolution as the inevitable march of the
hours grinds away the substance of humans and inanimate matter alike.
The Strife of the Dying Hour draws on that eternal conflict, imbuing its
practitioners with the arts of temporal erosion and lethal
time-manipulation. As the art\'s scorn for material objects is so
fundamental, its practitioners cannot use it while wearing armor or
wielding weapons, as such reliance on base matter is contrary to its
ways.

The Lesser Strife

The lesser Strife of the Dying Hour is surprisingly popular among
scholars and intellectuals, who find sympathy in its focus on time. Its
most common practitioners in Arcem are among the officials of the
Dulimbaian Regency and their neo-Taoist internal masters who practice it
as an outgrowth of their immortality studies. While the art does not
offer agelessness, it is thought that study of its principles
better-equips a master to overcome the relentless decay of age.

[Initiate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The initiate cannot be surprised without the
aid of magic and their unarmed attacks inflict 1d6 damage.

[Disciple:]{.Bolded-Run-In} Once per scene, the disciple may double
their allowed attacks for a round, albeit they lose the following two
rounds of actions. Disciples with multiple actions in a round double
attacks made with any of them.

[Master:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The master\'s unarmed attacks inflict 1d8
damage and they become immune to magical aging or slowing effects.

  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------
  Scholar Li Po                                                              
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5, intrinsic   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60' teleport
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   20             [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +12 x 3        [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 strike straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10             [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   8
  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- ----------------------

One of the esteemed [junzi]{.CharOverride-2} gentry of the Dulimbaian
Regency, Scholar Li Po is a genius---and fully aware of that fact.
Tremendously proud of his erudition and culture, he considers the common
[xiaoren]{.CharOverride-2} to be little more than annoying rabble to be
ordered correctly for their own good, and the less said of barbarian
foreigners, the better.

While an incredible intellect, Li Po is such a tremendous asshole that
his colleagues in the bureaucracy have conspired almost as one to ensure
that he is not honored by the Regent nor given an office of importance.
Outraged by this disregard for his talents, Scholar Li Po has elected to
rusticate in places of Former Empire culture and sophistication, seeking
out ruins for study and plunder. He often sets his heart on various
artifacts or relics that might be held by PCs.

Li Po considers himself a paragon of Dulimbaian values of \"ritual\" and
\"humanity\". In practice, he\'s a relentlessly selfish bastard who
effortlessly explains to himself why his passing whims and self-centered
desires are the veriest embodiment of the True King\'s virtue. He\'s
mastered enough of the ancient Li-magic to compel the wills of minions
and lieutenants, many of whom hate him even as they serve him. He has
tremendous wealth at his command as well, and often hires specialists
for certain work, many soon coming to despise him.

Scholar Li Po has mastered the True Strife of the Dying Hour, and has
gifts equivalent to the Words of Knowledge and Command. He can Commit
Effort to automatically succeed at saving throws, and can take two
actions per combat round.

  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  Techniques of the Dying Hour                                                                     
  [Sand Falling Free]{.CharOverride-3}                                                             A free action instead of surprise
                                                       [Thief of Hours]{.CharOverride-3}           Do 1d10 temporal damage
                                                       [Day-Devouring Blow]{.CharOverride-3}       Age a target with your blows
                                                       [Avalanche of Moments]{.CharOverride-3}     Double attacks for one round
                                                       [Stand Outside the Hour]{.CharOverride-3}   Temporal immunity
  [The Seconds Flee]{.CharOverride-3}                                                              Strip an enemy\'s action on a hit
  This strife disallows armor or weapon use with it.                                               
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------

  ------------------- -----------------------------
  Sand Falling Free   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------- -----------------------------

The adept cannot be surprised. If caught in a situation where they
[would]{.CharOverride-2} normally be surprised, they gain a free
round\'s action before the conflict begins. This doesn\'t apply to
situations of willful carelessness.

  ---------------- -----------------------------
  Thief of Hours   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------- -----------------------------

The adept\'s unarmed attacks are treated as a magic weapon that inflicts
1d10 damage with a 30 foot range. Each blow\'s damage is done as future
or past hurts are drawn back to wound the target.

  -------------------- ---------------------------
  Day-Devouring Blow   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------- ---------------------------

The adept makes a normal unarmed attack, but instead of damage, each hit
physically ages or makes younger a living target or inanimate object by
up to 10 years, at their discretion. Immortal creatures are not
affected, and worthy foes get a Hardiness save to resist. Godbound are
treated as immortals for the purpose of this gift.

  ---------------------- ----------------------------
  Avalanche of Moments   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------- ----------------------------

The weight of the adept\'s future collapses on a foe, allowing the adept
to attack twice in one round, doubling all attacks for practitioners
with multiple attacks per action. They sacrifice their next round\'s
turn, however, being unable to act, move, or activate anything but
Instant abilities or defensive dispelling that round.

  ------------------------ ----------------------------
  Stand Outside the Hour   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------ ----------------------------

Commit Effort. The adept gains an invincible defense against temporal
manipulations that would slow them, age them, or deprive them of
actions. This immunity does not apply to physical bindings or mental
influences, but only to temporal effects. This grants immunity to
attacks from [Thief of Hours]{.CharOverride-3}. Optionally, the adept
can cause any damage they inflict to stand in abeyance until they
release the Effort, when it will either occur to the victim or dissipate
at the adept\'s choice.

  ------------------ ---------------------------
  The Seconds Flee   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------ ---------------------------

Make a normal physical attack. On a successful hit, inflict normal
damage and deny the target their next round\'s actions, whether movement
or attack, even if they normally get multiple actions per round. This
action loss can be inflicted only once per scene on a given target,
though the adept can use this ability repeatedly until they hit.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer298 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor198}The
Strife
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker372}of
the Falling Sky

All things that rise up must descend, and the Strife of the Falling Sky
embodies that dichotomy. It is a strife of hurled bodies and thunderous
blows, with an adept's own fall a weapon against all below them. The
downward blows of a master of the True Strife can crush stone barriers
and human bones just as readily, and their terrible leaping strikes can
pierce overhead cover with ease. An adept of the strife will usually
move more by leaping than running when in a fight, relying on their
thunderous landing to weaken strong enemies and cull weak ones. The True
Strife is most often taught by supernatural beings of Sun, Night, or
Sky, though only the most gifted can master its secrets.

The Lesser Strife

The lesser strife of the Falling Sky is most often found in wild places,
where open spaces are plentiful. Mountain monasteries and other refuges
in high places are known to teach this strife, often pairing it with
lofty meditations on the soul.

[Initiate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The initiate's unarmed attacks do 1d6
damage. When striking an opponent below them, the initiate may roll
their hit roll twice and take the better roll. They ignore the first
thirty feet of falling damage.

[Disciple:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The disciple may use their movement action
to leap fifteen feet vertically and thirty feet horizontally.

[Master:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The master's unarmed attacks do 1d8 electrical
damage and have a 50 foot range, and they are immune to falling damage.
They may automatically strike a target below them when they fall for a
1d10 damage die, provided they fall at least 30 feet beforehand.

  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------
  Inga Hammerfall                                                            
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         5, intrinsic   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     40' run, 60\' jump
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   25             [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +12 x 2        [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8+2 strike straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     11             [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   8
  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------

The Witch-Queen Sif of the Ulstang isles has many loyal priestesses, but
few so useful to her as the towering Inga Hammerfall. A half-living
jotun daughter of a now-dead jarl, Inga's supernatural gifts manifested
as an uncanny talent for the secrets of the Falling Sky. She mastered
the True Strife before her twenty-third birthday, and with her jotun
blood's affinity for the Word of the Sky she has been Sif's most
reliable lieutenant and executioner for the past ten years.

Inga relies upon surprise, using her Sky affinity to fly into danger and
the [Tear Down the Sky]{.CharOverride-3} technique to batter her
opponents in a first strike. Once she lands, she leaps with [The Rising
of Rain]{.CharOverride-3} to gain repeated benefit from the [Javelin of
God]{.CharOverride-3}, shocking her opponents before flurrying a
terrible onslaught of blows. She avoids engaging foes indoors, where it
is difficult for her to leap or maneuver.

Inga's sole interest is in serving Sif loyally. The witch-queen offers
her satisfactions that only her dark powers can provide, and tantalizes
the jotun with the promise of secret rites of immortality. Inga is
beginning to suspect that Sif may view her as much as a potential rival
as a future peer, however, and so she has secretly begun to search for
alternative means of prolonging her youth.

Inga's supernatural heritage lends her an inhuman degree of might. She
can Commit Effort for the day to automatically succeed on saving throws,
just as Godbound can, and she gets two actions per round.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- --------------------------------
  Techniques of the Falling Sky                                                                                 
  [Javelin of God]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                             Pierce barriers on landing
                                                                       [The Rising of Rain]{.CharOverride-3}    Leap great distances
                                                                       [Cast Down the Proud]{.CharOverride-3}   Knock over a foe in combat
                                                                       [Thunderbolt Fist]{.CharOverride-3}      Hurl lightning as a weapon
                                                                       [Topple the Pillar]{.CharOverride-3}     Magnify a foe's falling damage
  [Tear Down the Sky]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                          Throw pieces of sky at enemies
  This strife disallows armor and non-projectile weapon use with it.                                            
  -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- --------------------------------

  ---------------- -----------------------------
  Javelin of God   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------- -----------------------------

The adept never suffers falling damage and can land with perfect
precision on a desired inanimate target beneath them when such accuracy
is important. When falling or diving, the adept may penetrate
non-magical barriers as far as they've fallen freely, up to thirty feet
of ceilings, barriers, or solid earth. If they have fallen thirty feet
or more, as an action they may create a thunderclap that inflicts a 1d10
damage die on all enemies in a thirty-foot radius of their landing
point.

  -------------------- ----------------------------
  The Rising of Rain   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------- ----------------------------

The adept may trade their movement action to leap up to thirty feet
vertically and sixty feet horizontally. They can only do this once per
round, but leaping out of melee doesn't draw a free attack from a foe.

  --------------------- ---------------------------
  Cast Down the Proud   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------- ---------------------------

The adept may make a standard ranged or melee attack against any target
within sight, their blow transmitted through the air. On a hit, the
damage done is halved, rounded up, but the target is thrown to the
ground and must use their movement action to rise.

  ------------------ -----------------------------
  Thunderbolt Fist   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------ -----------------------------

The adept's unarmed or projectile attacks count as magical weapons with
a 1d8 damage die of electrical damage and a 200 foot range. If the adept
is on solid ground above the target when they make an attack, they may
roll their hit roll twice and take the better result.

  ------------------- ----------------------------
  Topple the Pillar   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------- ----------------------------

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker373}The
adept may instantly target a falling enemy or object; any damage
inflicted by the fall is doubled, usually to 2d6 damage per 10' fallen.

  ------------------- -----------------------------------
  Tear Down the Sky   [(Smite) Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------- -----------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. If outdoors, the adept rips out a piece of
the heavens and hurls or shoots it at a single target within sight. The
victim suffers 1d10 damage per level or hit die of the adept, up to a
10d10 maximum, and is pinned to the earth for the remainder of the
scene. They can move along the ground, but cannot swim, fly, teleport or
jump. Worthy foes may make an Evasion saving throw to resist the pinning
effect of this technique. Each use of this technique after the first in
the same vicinity does half as much damage, as the sky tatters. It takes
a week for the sky to heal enough to eliminate this penalty.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer299 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor199}The
Strife
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker374}of
the Hunting Beast

The Strife of the Hunting Beast mirrors the eternal conflict and
predator and prey, and the countless wiles the feral hunter must embrace
to catch a swift meal. The adept of this Strife becomes almost
impossible to detect until the moment they finally spring, and the packs
of domestic hounds or guard animals that their prey might muster fall
inevitably beneath red talons. Adepts of this Strife are known for
sometimes taking on bestial physical aspects, occasionally extending to
claws, fur, or animalistic facial features.

The Lesser Strife

Many hunting tribes are known for preserving versions of this lesser
Strife, teaching their most capable warriors the secrets of the prowling
predator\'s arts. Outsiders are rarely invited to learn these things
without winning the respect of the tribe\'s elders, and that process can
often involve numerous painful feats, including some assaults on rival
tribes that might not sit well with a student\'s conscience.

[Initiate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The initiate treats their training as a
helpful Fact for all stealth or ambush ability checks. They gain a +4
bonus to hit and damage rolls against an unwary target.

[Disciple:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The adept's unarmed attacks count as weapons
that do 1d6 damage. By spending an action, the disciple can vanish into
natural outdoor surroundings for a round, becoming imperceptible to
onlookers. This ability can be used only once per scene, and worthy foes
can roll a Spirit save to resist it.

[Master:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The adept's unarmed attacks count as magical
weapons that do 1d8 damage. They may Commit Effort for the day to attack
a target twice. For mortals with multiple attacks in an action, all
attacks are doubled. This ability can be used once per target per scene.

  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- --------------------
  Garak Red Chorus                                                           
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         3, intrinsic   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     60' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   30             [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     5+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +12 x 2        [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 claw straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     10             [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   6
  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- --------------------

A brutal chieftain of the Running Dog Howler tribe, Garak Red Chorus is
famed as one of the greatest hunters of his generation. His supernatural
stealth, his prowess in war, and his terrible swiftness have made him a
scourge to the villages of Lom\'s Tongue region and a plague to the
Oasian pyramid-cities too close to the Howler border.

Garak is utterly indifferent to the lives of non-Running Dogs, and
considers others mere playthings and tribute-producers for his tribe.
The peace chief of his tribe is utterly cowed by him, and his word is
law among his people. A coalition of neighboring tribes is keeping the
Running Dogs in check, but the peace is only likely to last as long as
Lom and the Oasis States provide more interesting fights. He\'s
especially interested in champions who might be able to give him an
engagement worthy of enhancing his glory.

When Garak\'s not laying a personal ambush, he\'s always found in the
company of his bestial Running Dog kinsmen and their packs of savage,
mutated canine allies, many of which are large enough to ride.

Garak has mastered the True Strife of the Hunting Beast and has innate
talents equivalent to the Word of Beasts and Alacrity. He can Commit
Effort to automatically save, and can take two actions per combat round.

  -------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  Techniques of the Hunting Beast                                                                                  
  [The God that Prowls]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                           Vanish to one enemy target
                                                                 [Mask of Grasses]{.CharOverride-3}                Disappear briefly in nature
                                                                 [Talons of the Stalking Beast]{.CharOverride-3}   Your unarmed blows are silent
                                                                 [The Taste of Blood]{.CharOverride-3}             Track a bloodied foe unerringly
                                                                 [Cull the Huntsman\'s Pack]{.CharOverride-3}      Slaughter guard beasts
  [Red Jaws of Frenzy]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                            Berserk against a chosen foe
  This Strife disallows armor or non-melee weapon use with it.                                                     
  -------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------

  --------------------- ----------------------------
  The God that Prowls   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------- ----------------------------

The adept chooses one visible creature as prey, becoming imperceptible
to that target. If the adept launches a weapon or unarmed attack against
the victim, the blow hits automatically and does maximum damage. Once
the adept has attacked a target, they are immune to this technique for
the rest of the scene. Only one creature can be targeted at a time, and
worthy foes get a Spirit saving throw to resist this power.

  ----------------- ---------------------------
  Mask of Grasses   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------- ---------------------------

The adept vanishes into natural outdoor surroundings, becoming
imperceptible to all onlookers for one round. The effect is broken if
they attack or otherwise draw attention. Each use of this ability after
the first in a scene requires the user to Commit Effort for the scene.
Worthy foes can make a Spirit saving throw to pierce the concealment.

  ------------------------------ -----------------------------
  Talons of the Stalking Beast   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------ -----------------------------

The adept's unarmed attacks count as a magic weapon that does 1d10
damage. Unarmed attacks made by the adept stifle all alarm cries or
warning sounds made by the victim for one round after the attack.

  -------------------- ----------------------------
  The Taste of Blood   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------- ----------------------------

Once the adept hits a victim or has tasted a victim's freshly-shed
blood, they can unerringly sense their direction and distance until
dawn.

  -------------------------- -----------------------------
  Cull the Huntsman's Pack   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------- -----------------------------

The adept's attacks against natural or magical guard beasts and other
animal servitors of intelligent beings automatically hit, and their Fray
die always does maximum damage if applied exclusively to the beast.

  -------------------- ----------------------------
  Red Jaws of Frenzy   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and pick a target. The adept may use their
action to make three attacks against the target. They may repeat this
action each round, but the first time they use their main action for the
round to do anything except physically attack this target or are
prevented from attacking the target for a round, this gift ends and
cannot be triggered against the same target during this scene. Movement,
Instant, and On Turn powers may be used without disrupting the gift. If
used by a creature with multiple attacks per action, they gain two
additional attacks, but all must be targeted at the same foe. If used
with [The God that Prowls]{.CharOverride-3}, only the first attack is an
automatic hit.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer300 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor200}The
Strife
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker375}of
the Scorned Lover

Love and hate are sisters in the heart, and the Strife of the Scorned
Lover embodies the bitter vengeance of a love rejected. It is a subtle
art, its strikes made invisibly by its adepts and the damage it does
concealed until combat finally erupts. It functions most effectively as
a tool of treachery, turning old friendships and former romances into
weapons against the adept's enemies. Most adepts of the Scorned Lover
are beguiling and liberal in their charms, knowing that every kiss and
every promise is just another weapon in their arsenal.

The Lesser Strife

The lesser strife of the Scorned Lover is largely the property of
courtesans and con men, adepts who use the art as the final stroke in a
far more elaborate plan. Some formal courtesan guilds make a point of
teaching this lesser strife to their members for self-defense purposes.

[Initiate:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The initiate treats their skill as a helpful
Fact for seduction and charm. The adept's unarmed attacks are treated as
weapons that do 1d6 damage, If striking at a completely unwary opponent,
the first round's attacks always hit and do maximum damage.

[Disciple:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The first time a foe hits them in a scene,
the disciple gets an automatic counterattack action with their weapon or
unarmed attack. Practitioners with multiple attacks for each action get
their full attack sequence. A Mob versed in this strife may trigger this
power once per round, as they are made of multiple individuals.

[Master:]{.Bolded-Run-In} The master's unarmed attacks are treated as
magical weapons that do 1d8 damage. They do not appear to be attacks to
anyone except the target, who realizes what is really happening.

  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------
  Lady Mihret Kassa                                                          
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}         6, intrinsic   [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}   22             [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     12+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}     +12 x 2        [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d8+2 strike straight
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}     12             [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   8
  ------------------------------ -------------- ---------------------------- -----------------------

A despised renegade of the Invidian Order of Ancalian knighthood, Mihret
Kassa was once a champion among knights, famed as much as any of those
secretive justiciars for her astonishing powers of infiltration and
disguise. She gained particular renown for masquerading as an undead
draugr concubine in a successful attempt to assassinate the dreaded jarl
Ivar Gore-Drinker on the eve of a major Ulstang raid.

No one is certain what enticed her to turn against her former sisters,
but the systematic extermination of an entire noble kantiba's family was
proven to be her work by Vindicant investigators. She vanished several
months before the eruption of the Night Roads in Ancalia, and has
supposedly since entertained offers of employment from half a dozen
wealthy nobles throughout Arcem.

Mihret has fully mastered the True Strife of the Scorned Lover, and uses
it with great elan. She prefers to entice her eventual prey through her
remarkable natural charms before delivering the killing blow. If
discovered prematurely, she's been known to play the unfairly-maligned
damsel, persuading her victim that her disgrace was the work of scheming
rivals. She has a veteran spy's paranoia, and if confronted by an
unknown enemy she'll tend to flee first and investigate later.

Mihret's innate talent has gifted her with superhuman prowess. She can
spend Effort to auto-succeed on saves, has arts equivalent to the Word
of Deception, and gets two actions per round.

  --------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  Techniques of the Scorned Lover                                                                                
  [A Kiss Like Poison]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                          Do subtle unarmed damage
                                                                  [A Clinging Like Fragrance]{.CharOverride-3}   Follow an evasive foe
                                                                  [A Confession Like Sin]{.CharOverride-3}       Counterattack on melee hits
                                                                  [A Passion Like Chains]{.CharOverride-3}       Force a foe to target you alone
                                                                  [A Name Like Razors]{.CharOverride-3}          Intimate ties cause more harm
  [A Love Like Murder]{.CharOverride-3}                                                                          Echo damage to attackers
  This Strife disallows armor and non-light weapon use with it.                                                  
  --------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------

  -------------------- -----------------------------
  A Kiss Like Poison   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------- -----------------------------

The adept's unarmed attacks are treated as magical weapons that do 1d8
damage and have a 50 foot range, using Charisma as the attribute
modifier for the attack. These unarmed attacks appear to be completely
harmless kisses, pats, warm smiles or intimate glances, though they
still require a normal hit roll, as the martial panoply or heavy armor
of a foe somewhat lessens the charm of a honeyed smile. Lesser foes not
already in combat are unaware of hit point loss from these "attacks"
until they are killed or rendered unconscious by them. Worthy foes may
make a Spirit saving throw to realize that damage was done after each
successful attack.

  --------------------------- ----------------------------
  A Clinging like Fragrance   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  --------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort and choose a target in melee range. For the remainder of
the scene, whenever the target moves, the adept may automatically move
with them, even if the target teleports or flies. Worthy foes get an
Evasion saving throw to resist the lock, which also ends if the adept
chooses not to move with them. Willing allies need not save.

  ----------------------- ----------------------------
  A Confession like Sin   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene when struck and damaged by an attack from a
foe in melee range. You automatically counterattack and hit with a
weapon or unarmed attack, doing maximum damage. Practitioners with
multiple attacks for each action get only one hit.

  ----------------------- ---------------------------
  A Passion like Chains   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------- ---------------------------

Call out an intelligent target or a Mob of intelligent beings. All of
their offensive actions must be focused on you until you drop this
technique's effects. Worthy foes get a Spirit saving throw to resist the
effect, and only one individual or Mob can be so fixed at a time.

  -------------------- -----------------------------
  A Name like Razors   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------- -----------------------------

If the adept knows a name the target answers to, their unarmed attack
damage die increases to 1d10. If they've shared an uncoerced bed or a
deep friendship, the adept's unarmed damage die becomes 1d20.

  -------------------- ------------------------------------
  A Love like Murder   [(Smite) On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------- ------------------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. Until the start of the adept's next turn,
any damage inflicted on them is also inflicted on the attacker, but is
doubled before being applied to the assailant.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer301 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker376}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor201}Paradises

A Paradise is a realm of perfect obedience to a divinity\'s will. While
the arch-god of a realm might have great control over its form and
substance, rule of a Paradise allows an even more profound degree of
control. The land and physical laws of such a place bow to its master\'s
desires, and it is a haven both for its ruler and the souls of those
pledged to its ruler\'s service.

Only extremely powerful divine entities are capable of forging a
Paradise. Some divinities are unable to do so due to their basic nature;
parasite gods are shackled to particular regions of their realm, and
cannot escape their metaphysical prisons. Other holy powers are too weak
to ever expend the necessary strength. A few, however, have both the
power and the determination to forge a realm of their own, one to serve
as a citadel and a sanctuary alike. A pantheon of veteran Godbound might
well have the might necessary to work such a wonder.

Forming a Paradise

A divinity has two practical methods of fabricating a Paradise: they can
work to become the supreme deity of a dead realm, or they can seek out a
rare artifact known as a \"genesis seed\" in the wreckage of Heaven. The
former method is relatively reliable, but prone to awakening alien
perils, while the latter is less capricious but requires the scavenging
of exceedingly dangerous Heavenly shards.

A Paradise by Claiming

In the first method, an entity must become the arch-god of a realm
through methods described on page
[[200]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor188).
The divinity may then begin the process of transforming the realm into a
Paradise, a citadel-realm uniquely tied to them as a vessel for their
power and a refuge for the souls of their devotees. Due to the
difficulty of becoming the arch-god of a populated realm, most entities
that take this course are forced to seek out small, empty tomb-realms
which have lost their natural population for some reason. This usually
means dealing with whatever perils killed off the original inhabitants.

While the transformation is impossible if the god already has a
Paradise, the process itself is otherwise swift and inexorable. Within
mere days, the dead soil of a tomb-realm can be made to bloom with new
life at the will of its new presiding divinity. By this time, the
aspiring ruler has already driven off or destroyed any meaningful
opposition to the process, and so it is simply a matter of deciding how
they wish their new Paradise to behave and paying the Dominion
accordingly.

An arch-god may rule many realms, but only one of them can be their
Paradise. Once chosen, the paradise cannot be changed, though it can be
physically merged with other realms in the usual way. Realms welded
together in this fashion have a certain geographic area which
constitutes the paradise; the Western Isles, the Elysian Fields, or some
other blessed country where those who come find relief. Of course, this
also allows anyone in that realm to enter the Paradise unless its owner
takes steps to create barriers or Dominion changes that keep out the
unworthy.

A Paradise by Creation

In the second method, the seeker must find one of the precious divine
artifacts known as genesis seeds. These fist-sized objects have in them
the beginnings of an entire realm, awaiting the trigger of divine will
to blossom into a virgin fragment of creation. The seed must be
activated from some point within a realm, whereupon a Night Road
entrance will yawn open and a permanent link between that realm\'s
location and the new realm will be formed.

Each genesis seed is roughly fist-sized, usually appearing as some
object of deceptively simple outlines and excruciatingly complex
internal structure. Genesis seeds have worn the shape of crystals,
mechanisms, carved stones, humming devices, and other such artifacts. A
seed cannot be mistaken for anything but an object of occult power; even
a casual glance betrays the tremendous immensity contained within the
seed.

To activate a seed, one or more powerful Word-bound entities must touch
the object and channel Dominion into its awakening. The amount of
Dominion that must be spent depends on the size of the realm that the
seed will sprout; multiply the base size costs given on page
[129]{.Hyperlink} by seven. Thus, a village-sized realm would cost 7
Dominion to sprout, while one the size of Arcem would take 112. Most
seeds can create realms in any size the creators are willing to finance.

More than one entity can contribute to this activation cost, but only
major entities that are bound to at least one Word of Creation can fuel
the seed. The prime celestial engine of such a seed-realm is located
physically within the new domain. This makes it relatively easy to
guard, but it also leaves enemies no doubt as to where to look to find
the place\'s heart.

Every entity who contributes Dominion to the creation of the new realm
participates in its arch-godhead. If an entity that already rules a
Paradise finds a genesis seed and wishes to activate it, they may do so,
but the seed simply becomes a new realm for them to rule as
arch-divinity, and does not coalesce into a second Paradise.

Godbound Within A Paradise

While inhabiting their own Paradise, a deity has enormous advantages
against interlopers and hostile entities. A full pantheon of Godbound
united in defense of their shared Paradise can be a match for Made Gods
and their legions, or forge their sanctuary-realm into a wondrous place
of impossible marvels. Within a Paradise, its singular or plural ruling
entities gain the following benefits:

-   The ruler of a Paradise has all the benefits of being its arch-god
    as described on page
    [[201]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor190),
    because that\'s exactly what they are.
-   As their action for the round, they may refresh all Committed
    Effort, regaining any points that they would otherwise need the end
    of the scene or the day to return. Note that if the Effort is
    fueling a persistent effect, such as a scene-long miracle powered by
    Effort committed for the day, reclaiming that Effort ends the
    effect.
-   They have an invincible defense against any attacks or hostile
    effects launched by their devotees, living or dead, and may expel
    troublesome devotees from the Paradise and into Hell as an instant
    action. While this case is unlikely in most realms, some Paradises
    are less than pleasing to the shades of those within, and rebellion
    is not beyond imagination.
-   All changes they would enact in the Paradise are treated as
    Plausible, and require no challenges to be completed or celestial
    shards to enact unless the GM decides that the alteration is utterly
    unbelievable.
-   An entity that has a Paradise is impervious to aging or ordinary
    mortality. They can adjust their physical age to any year that suits
    them, and cannot be killed by the ravages of mere time.
-   If the ruler of a Paradise is slain, their remnant comes to rest
    somewhere within the Paradise, sleeping and silent. Destroying this
    remnant is simple for a supernatural foe and consigns the god\'s
    soul to Hell, but the Paradise\'s inhabitants will doubtless defend
    it with utmost ferocity. The dead god may still be worshiped by the
    faithful of the realm, and receive their souls into Paradise
    accordingly. Centuries of this worship or certain special sacrifices
    and rites might be enough to revive the fallen divinity, albeit
    often in a much weaker state.
-   The ruler of a Paradise may enter or leave it through any
    properly-dedicated shrine, as given in the Apotheosis Word gift
    [Sanctify Shrine]{.CharOverride-3}. They can also reach it through
    the Night Roads, cumbersome as that may be. Free divinities without
    a cult who are still rulers of a Paradise may enter it in any realm
    location very strongly aligned with one or more of their Words.

Unsurprisingly, Godbound are almost impossible to defeat within their
Paradise unless confronted by an overwhelmingly powerful enemy. More
often, a clever opponent will seek to lure the divinities out of their
sanctum, where they\'re vulnerable to more conventional means of
deicide.

Changing a Paradise\'s Properties

If the divinity forged their Paradise out of a tomb-realm, the
Paradise\'s qualities will be set by whatever terrain and occupants the
god found there. In most cases, the god will likely want something more
uplifting than endless plains of barren dust and broken cities, however,
so they may wish to enact changes in the Paradise.

Realms created with a genesis seed are more clement, and have a usual
range of flora, fauna, and geographic features developed as its creators
wish. This default package can be shaped when the realm is created,
though no natural intelligent occupants or artificial dwellings or
edifices are part of this initial complement of facts.

In both cases, fashioning a realm into a Paradise leaves reality
slightly molten and allows the world\'s new arch-god or arch-pantheon to
declare new facts about the place and make these words true. Even
Impossible changes may be enacted this way, with new truths broad enough
to change the basic laws of reality over the entire Paradise.

Seven such facts may be decreed when the Paradise is created. Every
participant in awakening a genesis seed or in becoming the arch-pantheon
of a tomb-realm may choose one of these facts, with the remainder
granted proportionally based on which participant is donating the most
Dominion to the process. Thus, if five Godbound work together to become
arch-gods of a tomb-realm, each one gets to name one fact about the new
Paradise, with the remaining two facts granted to the two participants
who\'d paid the most Dominion during the ascension process.

Genesis seeds already arrange their geography and climate to suit their
awakeners, but a newly Paradisical tomb-realm might have its physical
structure radically changed by these facts. From the blasted waste, one
god may declare, \"Lush forests now cover the land,\" while another
says, \"A proud and wise humanity springs up throughout the land,
defenders of their newly-reborn world,\" and a third declares, \"The
inhabitants of this world never know death, but only sleep for a year
and a day before rising young and strong again,\" while the fourth
decides to temper that with, \"Unless they choose to sleep in the grave,
enjoying sweet dreams until their sleeping selves decide it is time to
rise again.\" When such laws contradict, the most recent one applies.

These changes, and any other changes the ruling power makes later on,
tend to work out exactly the way the divinity expected them to. In the
blessed population described above, there is no overpopulation crisis,
nor phobic reaction to sleep, nor any one of a hundred other ways a
thoughtful observer might see trouble coming. The divine authority of
the arch-god simply [makes]{.CharOverride-2} them work, smoothing out
any difficulties with unconscious and automatic adjustments. If the god
is later slain or abandons their Paradise forever, however, this perfect
coherence might start to break down in their absence.

Importantly, changes established to the realm cannot confer any direct
special powers to the Godbound who rule it. They cannot make themselves
exempt from death, grant themselves unlimited might, or otherwise
augment what graces they already have.

Paradises and Souls

The most important function of a Paradise for a god\'s worshipers is as
a refuge for their souls. Devotees of the god who perish will find their
souls manifesting roughly a month later within the Paradise, arriving in
whatever way or role the god has decreed for them. Particularly loyal
worshipers may be granted a place of glory and delight, while less
satisfactory devotees might face an eternity of servitude. Some gods
make Paradises scarcely distinguishable from Hell, tormenting those of
their followers who fail to adhere to the laws handed down to them.
Ultimately, a devotee\'s fate hinges on the god\'s judgment of them, and
not any more abstract ethical law.

These souls manifest in whatever way the gods decree. Some may reappear
as flesh-and-blood humans, just as they were in life. Other gods might
decide that their devotees would be happier as orbs of light, or winged
humanoids, or shining stones suffused with the glow of eternal
contentment. By default, the devotees manifest as they existed in the
prime of their life. More exotic forms must be decreed as a change for
the realm, either when it is first made a Paradise or later on.

Devotees who die within a Paradise find their souls sleeping peacefully
there unless the gods have made special provision for death. Faithless
visitors from other realms who die there, however, find their souls
winging to whatever fate awaits them normally.

Once within a Paradise the souls there cannot safely leave. Without
powerful protections, leaving the Paradise would expose them to the
clutches of Hell and trap them in the inferno below. Unique life forms
created in a Paradise are also shackled to its special laws, though a
Godbound can make some part of a terrestrial realm friendly to their
existence with an Improbable change to the area. Thus, if a holy host of
winged lions was called forth in a Paradise, the Godbound could make the
precincts of their great temple livable for the entities by enacting an
Improbable change on the area. No particular Word is needed for this.

Paradises have no intrinsic protection against the incursion of Night
Roads. Some may open with time and require defenders to repulse an
invasion before the pantheon can seal it. Others may lie silent, waiting
for some hour of seeming peace to vomit forth nightmares.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer302 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor202}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker377}Themed
Godbound

The nature of Godbound and the process that creates them have been left
intentionally ambiguous in this book. It may be that they are the result
of decaying divinity and the chance acquisition of those synthesized
blessings that once were wielded by the Made Gods. It could be that they
are a consequence of the failing celestial engines, infused with divine
power as an automatic failsafe against cosmic calamity. It might even be
that they are blessed by the Creator, given their gifts to redeem a
world which has renounced its maker. Any of these are possibilities, and
it is not the intention of [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} to prescribe the
\"real truth\" about such things.

You, on the other hand, are much more in a position to decide the
reality of the matter in your campaign. The nature of the Godbound and
the way they express their powers in your game are very much up to you,
and you may have your own ideas about how you want their abilities to
work in your world.

This might be a matter of personal taste as you sculpt these demigods
into shapes more suitable for your homebrew world, or you might want to
take an existing setting and smooth off some mechanical mismatches
before inserting Godbound PCs into it. Like everything else in this
book, the existing rules and guidelines are intended to provide a solid
basis for your own creativity and development and give you useful tools
toward building your own campaign.

Still, it can be helpful to have some guidelines on making these kind of
changes, and so this section will detail the creation of [themed
Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}. Rather than having a single variety of
demi-divine hero, these rules help you create different subtypes of
celestially-blessed PC to better serve your campaign\'s needs.

Creating Themed Godbound

The first step in building a new type of Godbound is understanding why
you want to make them in the first place. Your reasons for creating this
new theme will affect how much work you need to put into fleshing it
out, and how much care you need to take in balancing the result.

Are you creating this theme for player characters in a specific homebrew
campaign or existing fantasy setting? If you plan on letting PCs take
this theme, you\'re going to need to ensure that it\'s balanced and
playable. If this is a theme that all PCs are going to belong to, then
you also need to make sure that there\'s enough scope for variation so
that an entire pantheon isn\'t left with largely identical abilities, or
with key powers that are all the same. If you envision most or all of an
entire group choosing this theme, you need to make sure that there are
enough different choices for the characters to provide individual
distinction in their powers.

Are you creating this theme for antagonists or background NPCs? If you
won\'t be allowing PCs to choose this theme, you don\'t need to worry
about power overlap or balance. You can use the standard bestiary
chapter rules for creating antagonists to brew up an enemy and then
decorate them with powers and gifts appropriate to the theme. Don\'t
worry about fleshing out special Words or building a full range of gifts
and powers; just give the antagonist the abilities that make sense for
the theme and let miracles take care of the rest.

Are you creating this theme as something that exists in your world, but
it isn\'t something the PCs are going to either be or fight? You really
don\'t need more than a few sentences of background information about
them. If these beings aren\'t anybody the PCs are going to engage with
mechanically, you don\'t need to worry about writing game mechanics for
them.

Once you know why you\'re writing this theme, move on to creating its
mechanical distinctions. For NPC-only types and types that will only
appear offscreen, this step is largely trivial. Give the NPC some
particular Word or special ability that is obvious and clearly marks
them out as abnormal, and your job is done. With PC types, it\'s
somewhat more demanding.

You need to identify a clear difference to a themed Godbound\'s powers
or nature. It needs some Word, or some power, or some set of limits that
shows up regularly in play and influences the player\'s decision-making.
There needs to be something that people can see is [very
different]{.CharOverride-2} from the standard Godbound type, and this
difference needs to support the theme you\'re trying to create.
Generally, it\'s best to have no more than one or two of these major
differences, as the more differences you add, the harder it is to
balance them correctly.

Next, you need to choose traits for your theme. These traits are
adjustments, benefits, and penalties that mold a Godbound\'s abilities
and alter the way they play in the campaign. The following section
includes a number of traits as suggestions, but you can easily make your
own, either drawing them from existing source material or adding them
out of your own creativity.

Traits aren\'t designed to be some kind of point-based system where you
add one special ability and offset it with a new penalty. Creating a new
theme of PC Godbound requires a little too much GM judgment to make that
practical. You should also be wary of adding too many traits to a
Godbound theme; it\'s all too easy to end up with a mess of special
cases and interlocking limits that can be difficult to track in play.
Focus on just a handful of characteristic, meaningful traits that will
show up regularly during play.

The last step is to sit down and actually roll up a character with this
new theme. Does it look fun and playable? Even if it does, be ready to
make tweaks in play, as no plan survives contact with the players.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer303 .Sidebar}
Themed Godbound in Arcem

The example themed NPCs given here are placed in the Arcem setting
described in this book, but the existence of themed Godbound in Arcem is
purely up to you. Godbound of any kind are extremely rare in Arcem, and
it\'s your decision as to whether any PCs or NPCs among them might use
the rules in this section. Even if some do, they may just be cosmic
one-offs and freaks rather than instances of an entire sub-variety of
divine hero.

The themed varieties given in this section are all roughly equivalent in
prowess to the default variety of Godbound, with the exception of
elemental Scions who are somewhat weaker. The Arrayed in particular
might require a more sophisticated support infrastructure than you want
to insert into your campaign. For the others, there shouldn\'t be too
much of a balance issue if you decide to let individual PCs use their
rules in play. Despite this, don\'t feel bad about declining to include
them if you decide that they\'d distract too much from the rest of the
pantheon. Sometimes the best management of a campaign consists of
choosing what [not]{.CharOverride-2} to include in it.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer304 .Text-Frame}
Themed Godbound Traits

The traits listed below are simply possibilities for a GM to consider
when drawing up their own themed Godbound. Some of these traits are
wholly negative, while others offer some advantage or benefit to the
types of Godbound who have them.

It\'s important not to think of theme creation as being exclusively an
exercise in game balance. Stacking on a pile of limiting traits may make
a theme strictly inferior to that of a conventional Godbound in their
personal power, but if everyone in the gaming group is going to be
playing a Godbound of that theme, it\'s not much of an issue. If all of
the PCs are sharing the same penalties or advantages, it\'s a relatively
simple matter for the GM to dish up challenges that are meaningful for
the group.

GMs should be careful, however, if they\'re building a Godbound theme
for a campaign with multiple PCs of different theme types. As it\'s
impossible to break these loose traits down into a strict calculus of
balance, you\'ll need to be careful to adjust things to fit your
group\'s composition, and not leave certain individuals out of the fun.

Consuming Temptation

This Godbound type is prey to some titanic passion or dark compulsion
that tends to surface at moments of strain. When the character is
created, the player chooses one ambition, craving, or drive for the PC,
perhaps as a tremendous hunger for beauty, a hatred of a type of foe, or
a craving for being glorified by others. This ambition can change during
play with the GM\'s permission and a suitable rationale.

If the Godbound ever has all their Effort Committed in a moment of great
strain or danger where they are facing the loss of something precious to
them or have been brought below one quarter of their maximum hit points,
the stress and passions of the moment are subverted by the temptation.
While they can control themselves long enough to deal with the immediate
combat or crisis that provoked the temptation if their lives are at
stake, they immediately afterwards are driven to throw themselves into
indulging their craving.

After the crisis, until they somehow extravagantly satisfy the
temptation or spend at least a day pursuing it with utter disregard for
their own best interests or prudence, they cannot Commit Effort or
Influence to anything not related to pursuing that temptation. Existing
Influence Commitments will rapidly collapse unless the Godbound
satisfies their passions soon enough to return to overseeing their
projects. A Consuming Temptation can flare up no more than once per
month, no matter how many moments of crisis the Godbound faces.

Incandescent Power

Using the Godbound\'s abilities results in some obvious penumbra or
insignia. A certain amount of the Godbound\'s Effort is \"subtle\" and
may be Committed without causing any obvious effects, beyond whatever
gift or miracle is being used. At first level, this is one point,
increasing by one point at levels 3, 6, and 9. All the rest of the
Godbound\'s Effort is overt. Committing this Effort to a gift, automatic
saving throw, or miracle will cause some sort of visible effect.

The first overt point Committed will cause some minor but perceptible
change. The Godbound\'s eyes will start faintly glowing, or wisps of
smoke will start wafting from them, or the low rasp of grinding stone
will be heard around them. These changes are usually only perceptible to
someone within melee range or someone who\'s already watching the PC.

The second overt point Committed will amplify the effect: the
Godbound\'s whole body will start glowing, or their hair will transform
into a mane of fire, or the rasp will become a loud rumbling. This
insignia has no mechanical effect, but it\'s obvious to anyone in the
Godbound\'s immediate vicinity and makes non-magical stealth largely
impossible.

The third and further overt points Committed increase the insignia to
its biggest, brightest, loudest level. The coruscating beacons and
burning banners created at this level are not just obvious to those
around the Godbound, but are bright or loud enough to attract attention
several hundred feet away.

These insignia die away at the end of a scene, even if the Effort is
still Committed. Committing and de-Committing the same point of Effort
counts toward the total, so a PC who activates a gift with a point of
overt Effort, deactivates it, and then activates it again with the same
point has stacked up two points worth of insignia. The specific nature
of the insignia usually depends on the type of Godbound, though it often
has a personal touch unique to the specific hero\'s powers and nature.

Godbound with the gifts of Deception or other divine powers of
concealment can stifle these insignia as part of their powers. Thus, a
Godbound who uses their powers to go invisible will not be given away by
a blaze of light. Once they drop their abilities, however, any current
insignia are extremely perceptible.

Inflexible Words

The Godbound can only use the gifts of the Words they have bound. They
can\'t use miracles to create arbitrary effects or mimic the powers of
other gifts of that Word. If the GM is particularly stern, they might
not even be able to use the Word to dispel or counter appropriate
hostile powers, but this is inadvisable, as it can leave them extremely
vulnerable to powerful supernaturals. Godbound of types closely tied to
particular Words might still be permitted to use miracles of that
specific Word.

Innate Gift

The Godbound type has one particular power that\'s universal to their
kind or characteristic of their abilities. This gift should be about as
strong as a lesser gift, and might not require any Effort to trigger. A
Godbound type defined by its shapeshifting abilities, for example, might
automatically receive a gift that allows them to shapeshift. GMs might
subtract this gift cost from their starting points, or they might allow
it for free if all the other PCs are getting their own innate gifts.

Innate Weakness

The Godbound type is vulnerable to something that doesn\'t require
elaborate effort to use against them. Pure silver, the bones of an
innocent, necromantic sorcery, an uncommon alloy salvaged from the ruins
of the ancients, or some other substance can cause them significant
problems. This substance is sometimes able to penetrate even invincible
defenses raised by the PC and rolls twice for any damage done, taking
the better result. Exceptionally pure or potent samples of the substance
might be able to inflict damage straight with the wounds they inflict.
Alternately, it might increase the minimum Effort cost of using powers
in the area, much like a portable empyrean ward, or it might give even a
lesser foe the ability to resist the Godbound\'s powers as if they were
a worthy enemy.

Lesser Godbound Gifts

This type of Godbound just isn\'t as powerful as the usual variety, and
their gifts aren\'t as strong or flexible. They can purchase only lesser
gifts in their bound Words, and cannot use miracles to mimic the effects
of greater gifts, though they can usually still echo lesser gifts with
their miracles. Some lesser Godbound types may have somewhat stronger
ties to specific Words, and be permitted to buy greater gifts
appropriate to their type. Purchasing these greater gifts may require
that they have a minimum level of experience.

Limited Word Choice

There are certain types of Words that aren\'t appropriate for this type
of Godbound. Paragons of death might not be allowed to bond the Word of
Healing or Fertility, while those with a strictly elemental bent might
not be allowed to bind any of the more intellectual Words such as
Deception, Knowledge, or Command.

Mandatory Word

The Godbound must choose one particular Word specific to their type.
This may be a unique Word containing powers that all their kind should
possess, or it might be one of a short list of Words for Godbound of a
particular theme, such as an elemental Word for elemental Godbound.

Skill Words

These Godbound have powers that revolve around mortal skills and human
achievements rather than the abstract elements of creation. They may not
be able to bind conventional Words at all, and may have to choose powers
that reflect superlative human prowess or superhuman expressions of
conventional skill rather than gifts that perform purely magical
effects. Full details on using Skill Words can be found on page
[[234]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor212).

Skilled in Strife

These Godbound are all remarkable martial artists. The first and last
technique in a True Strife only cost them a half-point to buy instead of
a full point, and once a Strife is fully mastered it is automatically
integrated with the other Strifes they\'ve mastered without the usual
one-point surcharge that must be paid to integrate all completed
Strifes. The knowledge of the Strifes is innate in them; they may
develop expertise in one existing Strife most suited to their nature
without requiring a teacher for it.

Taboo Behavior

The Godbound\'s type is forbidden from a particular sort of behavior by
their nature or the nature of their powers. Fraternization with mortals,
defiling natural places, smiting their own followers, or some other
general class of behavior or action is forbidden to them. If this is a
lesser taboo, they must immediately Commit Effort for the day if they
break it. If they can\'t, they suffer 1d6 damage straight from the
strain and are reduced to helpless distraction if they fall to zero hit
points. If the taboo is absolutely crucial to the Godbound\'s nature or
somehow inscribed in their essence, then assuming that they can break it
at all, they must Commit [all]{.CharOverride-2} their available Effort
for the day immediately after they break it, suffering 1d10 damage
straight for every point they\'re lacking from their maximum commitment.
If breaking the taboo involves a lasting condition or persistent
activity, the Effort cannot refresh until the behavior or taboo
condition ceases.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer305 .Sidebar}
Theme Creation Checklist

If you do decide to brew up a theme of your own for your campaign\'s
Godbound, you can use the follow steps to organize your thinking.

1.  Identify why you want to make the theme. Is this theme meant to be
    an option for players in your game? Are all PCs intended to belong
    to this theme? Is this theme for NPCs, meant to underline some
    special quality of your campaign world? Do you even have a
    particular NPC in mind for the theme, or is it just a type of being
    you want to exist in your realm?
2.  Identify the work you need to put into the theme. If every player in
    your game is going to belong to this theme, you need to be careful
    to flesh it out fully, balancing it properly and ensuring that there
    are enough possible differences in PC abilities to avoid excessive
    overlap. If only one player wants to be this theme, you don\'t need
    to give so much room for differentiation, because the PC won\'t be
    sharing the stage with others of their kind. If only an NPC has this
    theme, you don\'t need to worry about balancing traits or assigning
    Word options, and can focus solely on how that specific NPC works.
    If neither an NPC or a PC is expected to be this theme, you don\'t
    need to do anything more than write a few sentences about how the
    themed type exists and any major influence it\'s had on the setting.
3.  For themes that will be used for player characters, identify at
    least one big difference in how the Godbound will work during play.
    For Arrayed, that\'s their swappable powers. For Exemplars, it\'s
    their innate power and potential Skill Word usage. For Proteans,
    it\'s the Shapeshifting Word and their physical prowess, while the
    Undestined have their unmemorability and the Fate Word. Elemental
    Scions are distinct due to their limited powers, illustrating how
    you can create distinction by what you take away from a theme as
    well as what you might add to them.
4.  Assign specific traits. The ones listed in this section are ideas,
    but they\'re ideas you can tweak and mold to fit your specific
    concept. The Scions have a dangerous elemental mantle, for example,
    rather than a simple [Incandescent Power]{.CharOverride-2} trait.
    For a PC theme, make sure that the end result is playable and
    appealing. Traits that make the PC useless for wide swaths of
    activities or traits that leave them inferior to their party-mates
    in a substantial range of important fields are likely to prove
    annoying in play. The exception to this is if all the players are
    going to have the same type, in which case mutually-shared
    weaknesses have less chance of leaving particular PCs feeling
    unnecessary.
5.  Make up at least one character with the theme if you intend to make
    the theme available to players. There\'s no substitute for actually
    filling out a sheet when it comes time to check your concepts for
    playability and player appeal.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer306 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor203}The
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker378}Arrayed

The Arrayed are a rare type of demi-divinity produced as an offshoot of
the same theotechnical research that produced the Made Gods. While those
divine titans were fabricated as single vast entities of reverence and
power, the Arrayed were built to serve as lesser ministers and saints.
Rather than transforming their humanity into something else entirely,
they were altered and augmented so as to be able to receive the
blessings of celestial might. While no match for a true Made God, their
flexibility and versatility make them exceptionally effective against a
target if they have the requisite support structure.

An Arrayed requires a powerful, sophisticated theotechnical organization
to support it. Research theologians, cathedral-surgeries, and chambers
of incandescent soul-purification are necessary to transform a human
into an Arrayed, and even then, only a comparative handful of candidates
will succeed in the process. Once transformed, however, they become
ready vessels for the engineered might of their patron organization.

The Arrayed and the Words

Every Arrayed is created with an intrinsic, innate bond with a single
Word. They do not naturally manifest with any gifts or other Words, but
this first, innate connection is one they will always have, however they
may be altered by further modification. Bonding to other Words and to
gifts requires the assistance of their sponsoring organization and the
creation of sophisticated \"echo links\" that resonate to the vibrations
of the Words of Creation. These links connect the Arrayed to Words and
gifts, allowing them to employ the powers that their handlers have
prepared for them.

Every Arrayed has a number of Word slots. At first level, they have two,
in addition to the innate Word they will always have bound. These slots
can be filled with Word echo links with a day\'s refitting at a
suitably-equipped site, or existing links can be swapped out for
different Words. An Arrayed gets all the intrinsic benefits of the Words
they have slotted, such as Fire\'s immunity to flames, or Wealth\'s
perpetual solvency. If a Word allows different choices with its
intrinsic gifts, such as boosting one of two attributes, the Arrayed can
choose anew each time the Word is slotted.

Arrayed also have gift slots that work just as Word slots, and which can
be filled or swapped at the same time as Words and under the same
circumstances. A first level Arrayed starts with four gift slots which
can be filled with gift echo links, each gift taking up as many slots as
its point cost to purchase. Thus, two greater gifts would take up four
slots, as would two lesser and one greater. The gift echo links must
match the Words that have been slotted. For example, the Arrayed can\'t
plug in a Sword gift if their slotted Words are Bow, Endurance, and
Fire. Optionally, the Arrayed can fill three gift slots with a Word echo
link, allowing them to gain the benefits of bonding with that Word and
use miracles accordingly, or add gift echo links related to its
function.

Arrayed open up additional gift slots as they mature in their powers and
become more familiar with their use. They gain one additional gift slot
each time they gain a level.

Arrayed begin with the same two points of Effort that other Godbound
get, but develop more of it more slowly. They gain an additional point
of maximum Effort only at even-numbered levels. If they need more, they
might choose to slot universal [Effort of the Word]{.CharOverride-3}
gifts in available gift slots.

Support Facilities

Most Arrayed are reliant on elaborate theotechnical support facilities
to swap out their Words and gifts and supply them with the precious echo
links they need. An Arrayed who wants to build their own facility
independent of their sponsoring organization must usually count it as an
Impossible change in whatever polity they\'re working with unless the
locals are already capable of impressive theotechnical engineering. Most
organizations that create Arrayed would view this as a sign of incipient
treason, and Arrayed must conceal their efforts carefully. Actually
building the critical infrastructure requires three celestial shards,
supernatural entities with access to the Artifice, Sorcery and Health
Words, and a small village worth of expert theotechnicians. If all these
ingredients are brought together, the Arrayed can fashion a support
facility exclusively obedient to them.

This does not create the actual Word or gift echo links, however. Each
of these must either be salvaged from a dead Arrayed, found in storage
somewhere, obtained from a functioning support facility, or built as
artifacts. A Word echo link counts as an artifact costing eight Dominion
points to build, a greater gift echo link costs four Dominion points,
and a lesser gift costs two Dominion points, in addition to the usual
cost in celestial shards for building an artifact.

Most sponsoring organizations have a limited number of echo links
available for their Arrayed. Most of them have two copies of each Word
or gift in inventory and available for PC use. Thus, if more than two
PCs want to use the same Word or gift, they\'ll need to decide how the
limited resources are to be divided, assuming their superiors in the
organization don\'t decide for them.

Creating New Arrayed

Finding and creating more potential Arrayed is an extremely difficult
undertaking. Only heroic mortals and others of remarkable natural gift
have a chance of surviving the modification process, which requires the
expenditure of five Dominion points to even initiate. These points are
spent even if the candidate fails.

The aspiring Arrayed must then roll 1d100; if the total is equal or less
than their hit dice or level, they are proven a worthy candidate. If the
die is greater than their hit dice or level, they can either push on
with the process or retreat, forever after unsuitable for
transformation. If they push on with the process, they need to roll the
1d100 check again. Success on either attempt means they are suitable for
ascension, while failure on both means their permanent and complete
destruction, with no way to avoid their death. There is no known way to
influence this trial, though theotechnicians of the sponsoring
organizations still search incessantly for the key.

Once a candidate has passed the tests, they must go in for a month of
invasive, painful, transformative surgery that involves the application
of three celestial shards and their bonding of their initial Word. At
the end of the surgical process, they are a full-fledged first level
Arrayed, and their old hit dice and abilities are completely replaced by
those of a first level Godbound.

The expense of initiating this process ensures that only the most
capable candidates are tapped for the honor. While loyalty and
dedication to the sponsoring organization are critical aspects, the very
experience and veterancy that makes a candidate suitable for the process
can also leave them altogether too cynical or worldly-wise to be a
perfectly obedient Arrayed.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer307 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor204}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker379}Elemental
Scions

These lesser Godbound are marked by their connection to one of the
elemental Words, whether by some primordial bloodline or the blessing of
some mighty divinity of nature. They are capable of great acts of
heroism and vigorous defiance of divine foes, but their powers are not
so great as that of a more conventional Godbound proto-divinity.

The Powers of Scions

Each one is automatically bound to the Word of their particular
sub-type: Fire, Sea, Sky, Earth, or Fertility. Aside from this mandatory
Word, a Scion may bond to other Words of their choice with their
remaining two picks during character generation, or later on as they
accumulate more experience. These Words do not need to be elemental in
nature, and can be chosen from any available Words.

While flexible in their choices, Scions can learn only lesser gifts from
the Words they bind, and can use miracles only with their original
elemental Word, and those only to mimic lesser gifts or to offensively
or defensively dispel relevant effects. Once they reach sixth level,
they can start purchasing greater gifts of their primary elemental Word
and use miracles to replicate this Word\'s greater gifts.

Traits and Limits of Scions

Scions of a realm often have the [Incandescent Power]{.CharOverride-2}
trait, manifesting their elemental nature more dramatically the more
overt Effort is put into their powers. At its strongest level, these
insignia can be hazardous for those next to the scion who aren\'t immune
to their elemental Word; each adjacent friend or foe in melee range
suffers 1d4 damage from the insignia at the start of the scion\'s turn.
Elemental scions are all immune to each others\' insignia, regardless of
type.

Scions find it harder to produce the large-scale, long-term effects that
other Godbound can conjure. Scions cannot use Influence or Dominion to
create Impossible changes in the world. These reality-defying changes
are simply beyond their power to enact, so great deeds usually require
them to pile up enough lesser alterations until their desired end
becomes merely Improbable instead of Impossible.

In line with this limited transcendence, Scions do not develop the gifts
of the Apotheosis Word, or form cults, or gain the self-generating
Dominion of a free divinity, though they gain normal Dominion rewards
for heroic deeds. In compensation, however, they do not need to spend
Dominion in order to advance in character levels.

Scions In Your Campaign

Scions are weaker than conventional Godbound, and this can be a
potential problem if you want to run them alongside Exemplars or
Proteans. Still, they\'re not [dramatically]{.CharOverride-2} weaker,
and a Scion who focuses on their primary elemental Word can be a worthy
contributor to the deeds of a pantheon of true demigods.

One way to avoid this complication entirely is to run an all-Scion
campaign, where all the PCs are elemental Scions and other forms of
Godbound are antagonists or potential allies. If their dealings come to
violence, a pantheon of Scions is fully capable of taking down even a
veteran Godbound thanks to their superior numbers and larger total
Effort reserves. If a GM does pit such a pantheon against other
Godbound, it\'s advised that you build the Godbound as conventional
major enemies as described in the bestiary chapter. Without straight
damage, multiple attacks, and lots of hit dice, an NPC Godbound may not
make much of a solo opponent to a full pantheon of Scions.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer308 .Sidebar}
Creating Lesser Godbound

The elemental Scions are just one example of a blessed bloodline,
favored by some elemental power. If you want to create other themed
types that are less potent than a conventional Godbound, there are a few
crucial principles to keep in mind.

[First, restrict their access to greater gifts. ]{.CharOverride-3}The
greater gifts of each Word are meant to provide tremendous effects, ones
that can reroute a river, chop a hole in an army, or bless an entire
city with abundance. Any Godbound capable of learning greater gifts is
going to be capable of performing enormous feats of divinity that may
not fit with your vision for the theme. If you don\'t let them learn
greater gifts, don\'t let them use miracles to mimic greater gifts
either.

[Second, restrict their access to miracles. ]{.CharOverride-3}Miracles
are the general-purpose catchall for invocations of divine power. If you
want to tightly focus a Godbound\'s theme, only let them use miracles
from their thematic Word. It\'s possible to be even more strict and deny
them miracle use at all, but that\'s going to make life very difficult
for them when they need to defensively dispel some monstrous foe\'s
uncanny powers, and it also tends to straitjacket them into picking
their gifts with the maximum eye for utility, since they know they\'ll
never have a very flexible choice of other responses.

[Third, take away Dominion.]{.CharOverride-3} Dominion is a
general-purpose solution for a lot of problems. If reality is being
annoying to a Godbound, they can enact a change with Dominion and simply
alter the basic facts of the situation so that things work out more to
their liking. While this is entirely appropriate to a demi-divinity and
can create interesting new problems in how to support or enable the
change, it doesn\'t fit too well for lesser Godbound. For those types,
eliminate Dominion and omit the Dominion spending requirements for
gaining a level.

This may leave artificer concepts out in the cold, as they need Dominion
to build artifacts or godwalkers. If you don\'t want to harshly penalize
those concepts, give them Dominion rewards as usual, but halve the total
rewards, and only allow them to spend the points on building things.

Influence you can leave alone. It represents the personal attention and
immediate gifts of the Godbound, and so it does less to threaten sudden,
totally divine solutions to a problem.

[Lastly, understand your goal in creating the theme.]{.CharOverride-3}
Make sure you understand [why]{.CharOverride-2} you\'re building a theme
of Godbound generally inferior to the usual type. Is this to run an
all-lesser Godbound campaign? Then that\'s fine, as the players will all
share the same general power level. Is it because a player really wants
to play a sidekick-type with enough power to contribute, but not enough
to equal their peers? Then it\'s a knowledgeable choice a player is
making and it should work out well. Is it to create a new strain of
antagonists for the PCs? Fine, but make sure you don\'t put more effort
into it than a bunch of NPCs is worth. You don\'t need to balance things
for PCs with the theme, you just need style.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer309 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor205}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker380}Exemplars

Godbound Exemplars are paragons of human capability. They embody the
supernatural ideals of human possibility, exhibiting incredible powers
of physical and mental prowess. They all share certain basic traits, but
they are also found in five sub-categories that represent certain modes
of human excellence and potential. Persistent tales speak of additional
types of Exemplars that model other roles.

While they exhibit the best of human capabilities, they are also prone
to showing the worst. Exemplars are touched with the [Consuming
Temptation]{.CharOverride-2} trait, and all must choose some ambition,
craving, or moral flaw that is prone to overwhelming their good judgment
when they find themselves greatly strained.

All Exemplars have the [Incandescent Power]{.CharOverride-2} trait, with
their overt insignia taking the form of brilliant light. The details of
shape and form vary with the individual Exemplar. Their powers are also
focused on human concepts and ideals, and so they are not able to bind
or learn gifts from the Fire, Sea, Sky, Earth, Time, or Fertility Words,
or other custom Words that focus on some primordial elemental force
unmediated by human action. They may still learn Strifes that draw on
these concepts, however. Each Exemplar also has an innate gift
associated with their sub-type.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker381}Autocrats

The Autocrats are the prophets, kings, and teachers of humanity, the
voice of command that leads the multitude. Where the Conqueror leads an
army, the Autocrat leads a nation or a faith, and by their rule justice
is assured. At least one of their starting Words must be chosen from the
following list: Endurance, Command, or Passion.

Their innate gift is a tongue of ruling; once per scene, they can give a
command to any single lesser foe and have it obeyed instantly, provided
it is not utterly contrary to the subject\'s nature and can be completed
within the scene. This power may instead be used to compel a Mob or
crowd of lesser foes, albeit the Autocrat can only command them to do
something not greatly objectionable to them.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker382}Conquerors

The Conquerors embody brilliance in war and command. They harvest armies
with their flashing blades and lead legions to glorious victory. At
least one of their starting Words must be chosen from the following
list: Sword, Bow, or Command.

Their innate gift is that of might in war; their weapon or unarmed
attacks automatically hit lesser foes.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker383}Mediators

Mediators are those who bring the distant together and the dissonant
into harmony. No distance is too far for them to travel, no custom too
strange for them to understand. They bring riches and peace to those
they favor, and tidings of destruction to those less blessed. At least
one of their starting Words must be chosen from the following list:
Deception, Journeying, and Wealth.

Their innate gift is a sense of true bargaining: they know instantly if,
how, and why someone means to break a freely-made bargain they made with
the Mediator, even if they are a dozen realms distant when the culprit
chooses or plans to renege. If that person does indeed break the
bargain, the Mediator can use one power or attack on them as if the
Mediator was present, with the victim having no chance to resist or
dodge the effect and any damage or effect rolls being maximized.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker384}Rebels

A Rebel defies. Where an Autocrat rules and instructs, the Rebel
disorders and destroys. Some do so in an idealistic way and seek to
break vile orders, while others act only for spite or ambition. At least
one of their starting Words must be taken from Deception, Knowledge, or
Passion.

Rebels have an invulnerable defense against all effects that read or
influence their minds. Mobs or groups that are following their
leadership also have this immunity, but not to the Rebel\'s own gifts.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker385}Sages

Wise in all the knowledge and artifices of humankind, the Sage commands
this knowledge for the betterment of the world... or the improving of
their own position in it. They are masters of magic and cunning
craftsmanship, and build marvels to further their plans. At least one of
their starting Words must be chosen from the following list: Artifice,
Sorcery, or Knowledge.

Their innate gift is a command of magic. Once per scene, they may either
dispel a theurgic invocation or low magic spell as an instant action, or
use their action to immediately cast a theurgic invocation known to them
without the usual cost for quick casting. They can sense magic in an
object or area with a round\'s attention.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker386}Unseen

A trickster, deceiver, and infiltrator of sealed places, the Unseen
embodies the daring and adroitness of those who work by stealth,
swiftness, and deception. At least one of their starting Words must be
chosen from the following list: Deception, Alacrity, or Night.

Their innate gift is the power to go where they are not permitted; locks
and seals open instantly for them, whether mundane or magical. Even
magical barriers can be penetrated by Committing Effort for the scene.
Unseen have no chance to fail humanly-possible attribute checks related
to stealth or agile movement unless actively opposed by a worthy foe.

Using Exemplars with Skill Words

Exemplars are a type of themed Godbound especially suited for using the
Skill Words described on page
[[234]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor212).
If you\'re importing concepts from another game that focuses on
skill-based abilities or marvels, you might choose to use these Skill
Words in lieu of the conventional Words of Creation. If you\'d like to
do so, make the changes below to the Exemplars.

Every Exemplar needs to pick at least three Skill Words from those
skills natural to its sub-type. Thus, Conquerors need to pick three
Skill Words from skills related to conquest, military leadership, and
battle prowess. These can be major or minor Skill Words. The other two
Skill Words can be picked from any skills.

Exemplars can pick intrinsic benefits from three Words appropriate to
their concept. Thus, a fearsomely swift Conqueror might choose to gain
Dexterity boost of Alacrity, the Charisma boost of Command, and the
sword-summoning intrinsic of the Sword Word.

Exemplars can still learn the conventional Words as a form of sorcery;
thus, they can take \"Fire Sorcery\" as a Skill Word to gain access to
the gifts of the Fire Word, assuming their concept supports the idea.
It\'s up to the PC to describe the particular form of magic they\'re
using and how their PC relates to it.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer310 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor206}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker387}Proteans

Protean Godbound express the primordial reality of shape and substance,
the coherent physical manifestation that distinguishes the ideal
conception from the concrete object. Newly-awakened Proteans usually
manifest this control in idealized physical transformation,
instinctively molding themselves into a physical expression of their
bodily self-conception. This alteration can be drastic for those
Proteans whose body image poorly matches their original reality.

More experienced Proteans learn to control this shapeshifting ability,
gaining the power to impersonate other humans or adopt the guise of
beasts or hybridized creatures. The most determined disciples of form
and substance can even mimic the shapes of wholly inanimate objects
while retaining powers of animation and movement.

The Prowess of the Perfect Form

Even the most intellectual Protean has tremendous physical prowess in at
least one regard. One of a Protean\'s three initial Words must be chosen
from the following list: Alacrity, Endurance, or Might, and one more
pick is automatically applied to the Shapeshifting Word. Thus, a
newly-arisen Protean has one free Word choice, though they may bond
others with their gift points.

All Protean Godbound are physically capable and extremely hardy. If any
of their Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution attributes are below 13,
they are automatically raised to 13. Protean Godbound gain an extra hit
point at first level and each level thereafter. Thus, even the frailest
Protean will start with at least 10 hit points at first level.

In a campaign where other types of Godbound exist, they are unable to
bond the Word of Shapeshifting. Otherwise, the accessibility of the
Shapeshifting Word in conventional games is up to the GM.

Weaknesses of the Proteans

The vibrant physical power contained in a Protean tends to react
violently with certain inanimate materials, causing unusual damage to
the Godbound. While casual contact with this substance is painful or
distracting, it is only a serious threat if used as part of a weapon.

The Protean of a particular realm have an [Innate
Weakness]{.CharOverride-2} to one type of metal or substance; silver is
a common bane, as is obsidian, bone, specially-wrought iron, or
specifically-blessed weapons. A unifying thread seems to be the
substance\'s metaphorical embodiment of death, lifelessness, or
inanimate immutability in the surrounding cultures. The Protean of a
realm are usually only susceptible to one of these substances, but most
well-educated observers of their kind will know about this vulnerability
and will exploit it when practical.

Damage inflicted by a successful hit with this substance is rolled
twice, with the most injurious result taken, and ignores even the
invincible defenses of a protective gift. Specially-empowered or
enchanted items of this substance might always do maximum damage against
Proteans, but creating such powerful enchantments is very difficult, and
only potent Eldritch, hostile Godbound, or similar artificers can hope
to do so. Such empowered weaponry would have to be built as an artifact
with a greater gift dedicated toward doing maximum damage to Proteans of
that realm.

The Proteans of some realms are known for having the [Incandescent
Power]{.CharOverride-2} trait, flaring with divine might when they use
their abilities. This corona can make impersonation difficult, but when
the Protean needs discretion after unleashing too much of their divine
might, they can Commit Effort for the day to stifle its manifestation
for the next hour, though it requires a round\'s concentration to do so.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer311 .Sidebar}
Heroes as Weapons

  ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------
  [Leila the Bladewife]{.CharOverride-16}                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}                    7, if targeted                                                                                                                                                                      [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30\' dance as sword
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}              11 hit points                                                                                                                                                                       [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     15+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}                +1, 1d8 Fray die                                                                                                                                                                    [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d10 as sword
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}                9, 12 with Hazim                                                                                                                                                                    [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   2
  [Powers:]{.CharOverride-7}                Bound to Endurance, Shapeshifting, and Health. The gifts of [A Cold, Still Shape]{.CharOverride-3}, [Undying]{.CharOverride-3}, and [Lifegiver ]{.CharOverride-3}are known to her                                
  ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------

A simple Ancalian blacksmith\'s daughter, Leila was the prettiest girl
in the village, and the apple of her father\'s eye. When the manor
lord\'s dashing son Hazim took an interest in her, her father feared for
the young man\'s intentions, but Hazim was as good-hearted as he was
strong of arm. His father was unenthusiastic about his son\'s choice of
wife, but the boy was only a third son anyway and not needed for a
marriage alliance. For a few months, it seemed that Hazim and Leila were
destined to live happily ever after.

Then came the catastrophic opening of the Night Roads and the terrible
Hollowing Plague. The village was destroyed, the manor overrun, and
Hazim broke his sword on a swarm of husks before being dragged down and
gnawed by the dead. In desperation, Leila awoke to her nature as a
Godbound, infusing her beloved with tremendous vigor and becoming a
bright blade in his hand.

The two now roam Ancalia\'s wilderness, determined to help their
countrymen. Hazim is a great warrior, if but a mortal, but Leila\'s
powers have restored him after more than one death. Her own powers are
still limited, but she can make her husband nigh-immortal.

Leila usually takes the form of an unremarkable greatsword slung over
her beloved\'s back in order to save response time and Effort, though
she can adopt a less conspicuous shape if needed. She is, of course, a
magic weapon and does 1d10 damage when wielded.

While she has the shape of a sword, she can physically move and
manipulate her surroundings as a normal woman with two arms and two legs
could do. Thus, the blade might leap up and \"dance\" while unseen arms
grab and manipulate things around it.

Her voice is audible to her wielder and to others if she so desires, but
usually she keeps quiet so as to avoid unwanted notice. Her heroic
mortal beloved has a substantially better hit bonus, so while she could
make her own attack against anyone within melee range each round, she
usually uses her action to use Health miracles or perform physical
actions that her wielder hasn\'t got the free hands or attention to
perform. Her 1d8 Fray die applies normally, as she throws a few cuts and
stabs at enemies in passing.

In truly dire situations in which her beloved has perished, she\'s been
known to miraculously revive him with the [Lifegiver]{.CharOverride-3}
gift\'s power, though not before wreaking a terrible vengeance on the
foe who thought to claim the Bladewife as their own.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer312 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor207}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker388}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor208}Shapeshifting

The Word of Shapeshifting commands physical transformations of all
kinds, both of the wielder and of those targeted by their powers.
Shapeshifting is a very physical, tangible Word, and does not alter
minds beyond the necessary enlightenment needed to use new limbs or
impersonate others. Instead, it molds flesh as its wielder desires.

Shapeshifters use the shapeshifting rules given on page
[[160]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor164).
When shapeshifters change form, their non-magical clothing and personal
effects either vanish or transmute to ones appropriate to their new
shape. Vanished items return when they revert to a shape that can wear
or use them, while transformed items return to their original
appearance. Transformed items thrown off by the Godbound remain in their
new shape. Thus, a Godbound who turns into a Dulimbaian magistrate will
have their clothing become appropriate to such a figure if they so wish.

Godbound affiliated with the Shapeshifting word have an invincible
defense against any unwanted effect that would alter their shape, not
including simple damage, but including maiming, tattoos, branding, or
mutilation. Once per day they can smooth away their own wounds, healing
hit points equal to their level as an Instant action.

Lesser Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker389}Fair Mortal Mien   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You may take any humanoid form you wish, including a perfect replica of
an existing person you\'ve observed. Voice and physical mannerisms are
duplicated perfectly, but you gain no special knowledge of how they
behave or speak. This body can be molded to any appearance you desire,
but your own statistics remain unchanged. If you Commit Effort for the
scene, you can use this gift as an On Turn action.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker390}Knack of the Borrowed Shape   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

When you adopt the shape of a creature, you may also adopt its special
abilities. While you cannot mimic bound Words, divine gifts, theurgy, or
other learned sorcery, you can obtain a medusa\'s stony gaze, a
dragon\'s flaming breath, or some other magical gift. Old-school
bestiaries offer ideas for forms, but the specifics of allowed powers
are at the GM\'s discretion. Each gift you adopt requires you to Commit
Effort; when you leave the shape, this Effort returns at the end of the
scene.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker391}Lick Your Wounds   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You merge torn flesh and broken bones in your own form, becoming briefly
molten with vital force. Commit Effort for the day to heal 1d6 hit
points per three levels, rounded up. Until the start of your next turn,
you\'re immune to physical weapons or harm from objects.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker392}Plasmic Body   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You may soften and liquefy your form, allowing you to pass through any
barrier that is permeable to a liquid and permitting you to move at your
normal movement rate. This liquid form may maintain a human appearance,
but it is too soft to manipulate objects, attack a foe, or use offensive
powers, though it is immune to non-magical weapons.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker393}Ten Thousand Skins   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

You may transform into any creature no smaller than a mouse nor larger
than a moose. You retain your own attributes, hit points, and combat
bonuses in this form, but may use whatever movement types are natural to
your new shape. You may communicate with beasts of your assumed kind
when wearing their shape. If you Commit Effort for the scene, you can
use this gift as an On Turn action.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  The []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker394}Claws That Catch   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

You may manifest claws or other body weaponry in whatever form you take,
including human guises. These inflict 1d10 damage and count as magical
weapons. You may also Commit Effort for the scene to produce a venom
that will kill or incapacitate a lesser foe who fails a Hardiness save,
with the venom applied to every physical attack you make that scene.
Against Mobs of lesser foes, this venom makes your attack do maximum
damage in place of that effect.

Greater Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  A []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker395}Cold, Still Shape   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. You may transform into an inanimate object
no smaller than a knife nor larger than a wagon. The object may be used
normally without harm to you, though attempts to break it or disassemble
it affect your hit points. You retain awareness of your surroundings
while transformed and may move or otherwise animate portions of the
object. Changing back requires an action.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker396}Deceitful Faces   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------

With impersonations, you instinctively know languages and what to do to
maintain the facade, even if you have no possible way of knowing the
right answers or actions. Whenever you want to accomplish something, you
know the \"in-character\" way the original would do it. Worthy foes you
impersonate can make a Spirit save to block this gift.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker397}Forging of Sinew and Bone   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. You may alter a visible target\'s physical
form into any shape you yourself are able to adopt. Subjects transformed
into beasts use the rules given on page
[[160]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor164).
Worthy foes may make a Hardiness saving throw to resist this change.
This gift cannot heal a target or repair organs or limbs that have been
mutilated; the injury will appear in the new form as well. This
transformation is permanent unless the Godbound releases it or it is
dispelled.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker398}The Greatness Within   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------

The shapeshifter\'s natural transformational abilities are augmented,
allowing their transformation gifts such as [Ten Thousand
Skins]{.CharOverride-3} to adopt extremely large forms, as big as a
dragon, a modest house, or a small sailing ship. A mortal transformed
into a very large shape, one no smaller than an elephant, is given 3 hit
dice if their native hit dice aren\'t already superior to that.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer313 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor209}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker399}Undestined

The Undestined are askew. Where other Godbound are woven deeply into the
substance of the world, the Undestined have somehow gotten their divine
powers tangled in the metaphysical gears of creation. The see the deeper
substrate on which the manifestations of fate and causality play out,
and their powers spring from strange, left-handed invocations of flaws
and ambiguities in reality. A normal Godbound of Knowledge wields the
truth as a natural servant of his will. An Undestined knows the flaws
and frays in reality that let her instantiate Knowledge where Knowledge
should not be, where Knowledge [could not ]{.CharOverride-2}be for
anyone else. The mechanical effects of these cheated miracles are the
same as for other Godbound, but their appearance can often be very
different.

Undestined Powers and Limits

Undestined Godbound all have bound the Word of Fate, and are the only
ones who can barring special GM permission. They have no connection to
the more material elements of nature, and so cannot bind the Words of
Fire, Sea, Sky, Earth or Fertility. Their existence of constant struggle
against the celestial gears of reality gives them an intuitive grasp of
the principles of conflict and thus all of them have the [Skilled in
Strife]{.CharOverride-2} trait.

Their dissonance with the underlying processes of the world make it very
difficult for them to directly influence events in a memorable way. They
are easily forgotten, often overlooked, and even their great deeds and
mighty acts spawn tales and legends of some other hero. They cannot
spend Influence or Dominion on creating changes without acting through
an allied or subordinated figure. The control or influence that is
created always rests with that figure rather than the Undestined, though
the Undestined may have control over them in turn.

The acts and bonds of an Undestined invariably get confused or forgotten
over the course of a year or two, with their feats being assigned to
other figures and the tangible proof somehow becoming lost or distorted.
Worthy foes involved in the events or relationships always remember the
truth, however, though their testimony and insistence tends to become
misunderstood or overlooked all the same.

Most Undestined who want to live normal lives have to do so by creating
alternate identities, either through the [Consume the Name
]{.CharOverride-3}gift or through their own impostures. Mundane
disguises and pretense is usually sufficient to give a false identity
life, allowing the acts they perform in that identity to remain clearly
remembered and recorded. Determined Undestined are sometimes even able
to create false identities as rulers and monarchs, sidestepping their
kind\'s inability to rule directly by falsely assuming the ruler\'s
fate.

If the truth is discovered about the false identity, the Undestined may
be assailed as an impostor, but lesser foes will automatically assume
that the original person actually existed, and the Undestined has
abstracted and replaced them. Only worthy foes will be able to conceive
of the idea that the Undestined was playing the role all along, and they
will have extreme difficulty in persuading lesser sorts of it.

There have even been stories of persons that have been accidentally
constructed whole-cloth by the Undestined\'s impostures. Once the
Godbound\'s fakery is revealed, there is a small but real chance that
the person they pretended to be will actually come into existence, and
is unlikely to be well-disposed toward their \"impostor\".
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer314 .Sidebar}
An Undestined Schemer

  -------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------
  [Brother Gyaltsen]{.CharOverride-16}                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  [AC:]{.CharOverride-7}                 3, innate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               [Move:]{.CharOverride-7}     30\' run
  [Hit Dice:]{.CharOverride-7}           9 hit points                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            [Save:]{.CharOverride-7}     15+
  [Attack:]{.CharOverride-7}             +3, 1d8 Fray die                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        [Damage:]{.CharOverride-7}   1d6 prayer beads
  [Morale:]{.CharOverride-7}             9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       [Effort:]{.CharOverride-7}   2
  [Powers:]{.CharOverride-7}             Bound to Fate, Knowledge, and Deception. Has the gifts of [Drawing Out the Line]{.CharOverride-3}, [Consume the Name]{.CharOverride-3}, [Liar\'s Flawless Grace]{.CharOverride-3}, [Deceiver\'s Unblinking Eye]{.CharOverride-3}, and [Veiled Step]{.CharOverride-3}.                                
  -------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------------------

Brother Gyaltsen was never an important monk in the windswept Toban
lamasery of Jokang. His parents were nomads who perished in a raid by
Thousand Gods tribesmen, and for lack of surviving kindred he was
entrusted to the monks as an oblate. For the past forty years he has
been a model of unobtrusive usefulness to his seniors, dutifully obeying
both them and the rigid rules of the lamasery. Despite this, he has
neither friends nor notice there.

Gyaltsen\'s frustration has boiled for years. No matter how diligently
he served, how carefully he learned, he was always overlooked by his
superiors and never considered for positions of greater responsibility.
When his work on a holy manuscript he had spent ten years in copying was
credited to a rival out of seeming sheer indifference by the chief lama,
he finally lost all composure.

He murdered his rival in secret, and it was only then that he realized
his true nature as an Undestined. He perceived the dead monk\'s past,
his nature, his substance as a strand of being, and effortlessly assumed
the man\'s life. His \"rival\" left the monastery forever the next day,
cursing the monks and acting most disgracefully. Brother Gyaltsen\'s
absence during the scene was never noticed.

Since then, the Undestined has been feeling out the extent of his new
powers. He is convinced that the ancestors have blessed him with this
power as a reward for his years of anonymity. He understands that he can
achieve nothing under his own name, but his powers tempt him with the
idea of subverting the monastery to his service, and from there, casting
a net of influence over the whole Toban plain.

Gyaltsen is of no great prowess in a fight, and would be easily overcome
by a serious supernatural foe. His gifts and Words help ensure that he
never finds himself in such a situation. He will always seek to flee
direct confrontations unless he\'s absolutely sure of his ultimate
victory, and will prefer to use his gifts to frame an enemy and stir
other forces into dealing with them.

Gyaltsen is a man driven by decades of aching resentment. His apparent
cheerfulness in day-to-day dealings is driven by his hidden joy in his
newfound powers, and he will respond with secret but vicious pettiness
towards the slightest offense. Should he find other Godbound, his first
thoughts will be to subtly use them for his ends.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer315 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor210}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker400}Fate

The celestial engines grind out probabilities and likelihoods for the
denizens of the world below. There is choice for the living, but some
are so penned in by circumstance and their own natures that their
destinies are practically certain. The Godbound who binds Fate has
mastered those spaces of ambiguity between the certain and the
impossible. They can make near-impossibilities a fated certainty for a
person, or find the gap through which they might escape an otherwise
inexorable doom.

Miracles of Fate decree future results for the Godbound and other
creatures and steal the fates of others for the Godbound to inhabit.
They clip causality, unlinking acts from their consequences, and they
exempt the Undestined from the results of their unwiser choices.

The Godbound is master of their own will. They have an invincible
defense against mental influences or mind-reading, and may cause
attempts at the latter to return any results they wish

Lesser Gifts

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker401}Cut the Consequence   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. The Godbound\'s current round of action is
totally ignored by all around them, with no memory of it or reaction to
it save that of immediate self-defense. Even scrying or recording won\'t
catch the Undestined\'s deeds while under this effect. Worthy foes can
save versus Spirit to notice the Godbound\'s actions.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker402}Drawing Out the Line   [Constant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------

The Godbound is fated to survive their perils. Their base armor class
becomes 3 and they cannot be surprised.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker403}Persistence of Being   [Instant]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

The Undestined is immune to any effect that would kill them directly,
without inflicting the requisite damage. Thus death spells, lethal
poisons, petrification, or other instant-death effects cannot touch
them. Non-lethal side effects may apply normally. As an Instant action,
they can Commit Effort for the day to negate a blow or magic that would
kill them some other way, but they can do so only once a day.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker404}Read the Signs   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

The Godbound can look at a person and get a general idea of their past
and most likely future. A brief description of their occupation, current
ambitions, and a sentence on their most likely fate in the next year is
obtained, along with their maximum hit dice total or character level.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker405}Someone Else\'s Name   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene and target a visible person to strip their
destiny from them. Those who know of the victim will no longer recognize
them or believe they are who they claim to be, even if the
circumstantial evidence is overwhelming. The victim can try to make a
new life, but they can\'t get their old life back until the Undestined
releases them. Worthy foes can save versus Spirit to resist this power.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker406}Strike the Fetters   [On Turn]{.CharOverride-7}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. All allied creatures in sight are freed of
any mind-affecting effect or magical curse. If Effort is committed for
the day, these subjects become immune to one mental effect or
mind-affecting gift of the Godbound\'s choice for the rest of the scene.

Greater Gifts

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker407}Consume the Name   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day and choose a lesser foe or fresh human corpse
in sight. The target vanishes as the Godbound assumes their identity and
natural destiny. They can use either the targeted creature\'s attributes
or their own, but retain their natural hit points and character level.
They have an invincible defense against any magical attempt to detect
their imposture except for the inspections of the Fate Word itself. They
automatically know everything the target knew, though they may have to
focus on particular topics to dredge up the knowledge. This imposture
ends when the Godbound drops it or as soon as they Commit Effort for any
reason. Once ended, the original target reappears where they were when
this gift was first used, if they were alive, knowing nothing of what
transpired since. Corpses never reappear. Once the Godbound has consumed
a name they may re-adopt the persona at will by Committing Effort for
the day, but they can\'t adopt the same name twice in a single day. When
the name is re-adopted, the original subject vanishes once more,
assuming they\'re still alive, and again returns at the power\'s end.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker408}Fade Into Fate   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the day. The Godbound dissolves into the present
situation, becoming a faceless, overlooked member of some group of two
or more people present: guards, gawking onlookers, undead legions, or
even their own party of allies. They cannot be targeted or affected by
any attack or power, and their original presence is forgotten, but they
share the fate of the group. If the entire group is killed, they
manifest next to one of the corpses with 1 hit point remaining. The
Godbound may remain submerged in the group for up to one day, emerging
at last in some place near a member of the group. While submerged in the
group, they can take no action but get a general idea of what the group
is doing and where its members are. Worthy foes can make a Spirit saving
throw not to forget the Godbound was present, but actually forcing them
back into their presence requires an appropriate miracle of dispelling
or the extermination of the group.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  []{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker409}Revise Destiny   [Action]{.CharOverride-7}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

Commit Effort for the scene. A particular creature in sight may have its
destiny dictated in detail for up to one week per level of the Godbound
or a single fated event or indefinite condition decreed for some point
in the future. Wildly improbable events and choices cannot be dictated,
but unlikely ones may be made certain, including an untimely death. If
the target is a worthy foe or the destiny described requires the
involvement of worthy foes in its execution, those involved get a Spirit
saving throw to defy their role in the imposed fate.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer316 .Text-Frame}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor211}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor212}Skill
Words

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker410}[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker411}[Skill
Words]{.CharOverride-3} are an optional concept the GM may choose to use
with Exemplars or other themed Godbound who revolve around sublime human
perfection. Instead of focusing on the primordial elements of creation,
Skill Words revolve around human talents and pursuits. Rather than the
Word of Sword or Command, for example, the Godbound might have the Words
of Fencing or Persuasion. These Words are more limited than the
conventional Words of Creation, but an individual Godbound usually has a
wider selection of them.

If you\'re converting characters from a setting or game system that
already has a skill list, then the conversion is simple; each listed
skill is its own Skill Word. If you\'re starting from scratch, then you
can let players name their own Skill Words, such as Brawling or
Architecture or Cooking or any other short, descriptive term that is
clear to all.

Skill Words can be used for miracles appropriate to the skill\'s type;
thus, someone with the Linguist Word could use a miracle to write a
passage that meant one thing to most observers but gave an entirely
different message to a specific chosen reader. Skill Words don\'t tend
to have such dramatic effects as the usual Words of Creation, and so the
effects created by a Skill Word miracle should usually be on par with a
lesser gift.

Skill Words can also be used for defensive dispelling, if the player can
explain how they\'re using their word to dodge some impending
supernatural calamity. The GM should be generous about this; it can be
hard to explain how a strictly human skill can be used to evade a
torrent of living flame, for example, but the game is going to be very
hard for PCs who can\'t dispel incoming trouble at least some of the
time. As a general rule of thumb, the GM should be charitable about
interpretations, but don\'t let the player use the same dispelling
justification twice in one fight. Thus, the Exemplar of Architecture
might suddenly build a wall so quickly that the flame torrent spatters
against it, but they couldn\'t then use that same trick again in the
same fight. Skill Words are rarely applicable for offensive dispelling.

Choosing Skill Words and Gifts

In place of their usual Word picks, an Exemplar or other themed Godbound
of similar prowess can pick three major Skill Words and two minor Skill
Words during their character creation. Major Words are critical to the
PC\'s concept, while Minor Words might be lesser knacks that are
important to the PC but not entirely mandatory to their conception. Once
chosen, they can spend their usual six gift points on appropriate gifts,
or buy additional major Skill Words for three gift points or minor Skill
Words for two. They can likewise expand their selection of Words later
on by spending points earned in advancement on doing so. If the GM is
using Skill Words for a group of themed Godbound, they normally
[cannot]{.CharOverride-2} buy conventional Words.

Players can buy gifts from any conventional Word that fit at least one
of their major Words. Thus, the word of Fencing might take gifts from
both Sword and Alacrity, representing the nimbleness and prowess of the
paragon of fencing. One with the word of Brawling might take gifts from
Might and Endurance, with a little bit of Sword on the side. It\'s up to
the GM to decide if the justification offered makes sense. The GM also
decides whether or not specific greater gifts may be purchased; some of
these gifts create effects much too powerful or dramatic to fit the
idiom of human skill, however superhuman its refinement. With minor
Words, the player can buy gifts in a similar fashion but they are
limited to lesser gifts only.

Skill Word Sorcery

Magically-gifted PCs might choose to take a particular form of magic as
a Skill Word, such as \"Fire Sorcery\". Mastery of this style of magic
would let them pick gifts from the Fire Word, for example, or perhaps
select some theurgy initiations from Sorcery. While they may represent
their gifts as spells and incantations, they are used normally; the hero
doesn\'t have to spend extra time casting to trigger their Body of
Burning Light gift. Of course, if they actually do use theurgy or a low
magic tradition, the casting times apply normally.

Most GMs will want to require players to take such sorcery as a major
Skill Word, and avoid allowing sorcerer PCs to duplicate more human
skills with their picks. Thus, you might allow Night sorcery, but not
Sword sorcery, because the latter is too similar to the strictly human
pursuit of swordsmanship. If a hero wants to be a tremendous
swordswoman, have her pick Fencing or Dueling or Melee as a Skill Word
rather than taking it as sorcery.

In the same vein, you may want to restrict such sorcery from human
exercises of skill even if it would normally fall under the Word\'s
purview. You may permit a Sea sorcerer, for example, but disallow using
it for miracles of seamanship or captaincy. Magic of this kind is meant
for wonders and marvels rather than simple augmentation. In all cases,
taking such a Skill Word should usually be justification enough for
buying the Adept of the Gate gift and other theurgic initiation gifts
from the Sorcery Word. Naturally, the adept will then have to learn
their invocations normally, but they can always fall back on the gifts
and miracles of their chosen magic.

[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor213}Converting
Powers From Other Games

One of the main reason to use themed Godbound is when you want to
convert characters or concepts from other games. Many of these games
have their own systems of powers, abilities, and special perks. Rather
than reinvent the wheel, there are a few steps you can take to convert
their existing powers to [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}. These are most
applicable if your trying to create new Skill Word gifts, but you might
take them as hints for importing other powers and abilities into your
game.

Non-Combat Boost Abilities

Some powers grant the hero sublime skill at a particular non-combat
activity or proficiency. If the power is narrow in its effect, applying
to only one situation or type of activity, it should provide automatic
success at the effort with no Effort commitment requirement. Thus, a
power that gives the hero a bonus to evading obstacles and ramming
attempts while captaining a ship would be converted to a lesser gift
that allows the captain to dodge reefs, wreckage, or ramming attempts
automatically, for no Effort Commitment. If opposed by some foe with a
similar sea-mastery bent on ramming, the conflict would be diced off as
an opposed attribute check.

If the power is broad-based, applying a benefit in many situations, then
it should still give automatic success but require Effort to be
Committed for the scene, or for the day if the effect is particularly
dramatic. Thus, a generic power that made the hero a tremendous seaman
would be converted to a lesser gift that let them succeed in any
superhuman feat of sailing mastery at the cost of Committing Effort for
the scene.

In essence, if the power is giving a bonus to a roll, convert it to
automatic success. If it\'s an automatic success at something niche or
uncommonly necessary, make it cost no Effort. If it\'s an automatic
success at something very flexible or a specific feat the PC will be
using often, like hitting someone or persuading someone, then make it
Commit Effort for the scene. If it involves automatic success and
tremendous results from that success, like a maximized damage roll, then
it Commits Effort for the day. Skill boost abilities are almost always
lesser gifts.

Some powers have a very small effect on their own, and are meant to be
used in conjunction with other abilities to create a more powerful total
result. These abilities don\'t fit in well with
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}\'s mechanics, and you\'re generally best off
simply ignoring those powers and not introducing them to your game. At a
pinch, you might wrap several up into a single more effective ability.

Saving Throws and Lesser Foes

Some powers will take a foe out of the conflict if they succeed: a power
of supernatural persuasion, for example, or a sudden poison that
enfeebles the victim instantly. If these powers connect and
automatically succeed then the victim simply loses to the PC.

Against single lesser foes, this is all right. A Godbound who uses a
gift against one lesser foe can reasonably expect to defeat them by
doing so. The inexorable persuasion, noxious poison, or crippling
enchantment will just automatically work against single foes.

Against groups of lesser foes, it should allow a saving throw, and be
limited in the number of targets it can take out or beguile. If you need
a guideline, assume it debilitates a number of hit dice of lesser foes
equal to 1d6 per two levels of the hero, rounded up. If used against a
Mob of lesser foes, read those dice straight.

Against single worthy foes, the power should always allow a saving throw
to resist it or mitigate its effect. It\'s all right for the power to
eliminate a worthy foe if it fails its save, because most significant
worthy foes have excellent saving throws and can Commit Effort to
auto-save if they fail. Even so, these powers can be useful against such
enemies as a tax on their available Effort, though the hero is probably
better off relying on more direct harms.

Against groups of worthy foes, the power should only ever be able to
harm or weaken them rather than render them helpless or compliant. Use
the standard damage and effect guidelines given in the \"What Can
Miracles Do\" section on page
[[27]{.Hyperlink}](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor024).
Allowing a PC to automatically wipe out several major enemies with a
single power or effect is unwise, even if a saving throw is allowed to
the victims. The most such area-effect powers should do is inflict hit
point damage, apply penalties to saving throws or hit rolls, or other
effects that soften up the targets without making them trivial to
defeat.

Powers And Prerequisites

Some games have powers that involve several prerequisite abilities that
must be learned before the best power can be acquired. Sometimes this
final power is just qualitatively better than the earlier ones, and is a
flat upgrade on its abilities. Other times the earlier powers are still
useful, even if the final power is more effective in its particular
result.

Cut these prerequisite chains. If the final power is exceptionally
strong, make it a greater gift, but don\'t require prerequisite
abilities. If the earlier powers in the chain do different things, wrap
one or more of them up into a lesser gift, such that a player might want
to pick the power even independent of the final ability in the chain.
Prerequisite chains often oblige a player to map out their power choices
in advance, and that\'s something [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} tries to
eliminate.

Some games gate powers behind particular scores or level limits,
requiring the PC have certain abilities or a certain power level before
they can choose the gift. In this case, let minor Words pick the easier
gifts to learn, while major Words can pick any gift from the category.
Thus, if the game measures power magnitude on a 1 to 5 scale, you might
choose to let minor Words pick powers of levels 1 to 2 as lesser gifts,
while major Words could pick all powers, treating those of levels 3 to 5
as greater gifts.

Abilities Based on Overall Power

Some games have a key statistic that measures a hero\'s overall might,
much as [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} uses character levels. Sometimes
this power score is measured between 1 and 5, while other games use a
score between 1 and 10. These scores can be used as prerequisites for
certain powers, or be relevant when determining an ability\'s effects.

For individual powers, it\'s best to use the guidelines in the section
above, granting people Skill Word users with minor Words access to level
1 and 2 powers, while major Words let them pick any power. If using
conventional Words of Creation, let them pick any power under their
purview, as Godbound are stronger than the average PC heroes of these
games.

When a hard score is needed for your conversion, halve the PC\'s level,
rounded up, to get a power score between 1 and 5. If the converted game
uses a ten-point range, just use the PC\'s level. For NPCs and monsters,
just assign an appropriate score based on the setting and your own
judgment of where the entity stands.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer317 .Sidebar}
Skill Word Summary

If the GM chooses to have their themed Godbound pick Skill Words instead
of the usual Words of Creation, alter the usual character creation steps
as below.

-   Pick three major Skill Words and two minor Skill Words. Use skills
    from the game you\'re converting from, or any other short term that
    is clear to both you and the GM.
-   Spend your six gift points to buy gifts from any of the conventional
    Words. You can buy any lesser gift that seems to fall under the
    rubric of one of your Skill Words, such as an offensive Bow gift for
    the Archery Skill Word or a flaming attack for a Fire Sorcery Skill
    Word. You may only buy greater gifts for your major Skill Words.
-   You can buy additional major Skill Words for three gift points, or
    minor ones for two. You may do this now or as you gain more gift
    points with experience and level advancement.

You may perform miracles with your Skill Words as usual, but these
miracles must somehow relate to superhuman excellence rather than purely
magical feats.

Sorcery Skill Words do not have this limitation, but cannot be used to
replicate purely human feats of skill, or cover fields that are better
described by a more mundane skill\'s sphere. Thus, there might be Fire
sorcerers, but no Archery sorcerers.
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer318 .Four-Column-Text-Frame}
[[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor214}Glorious
Patrons of the Game ]{.CharOverride-17}

Let all souls be appraised that the noble patrons listed below have
contributed at the [Made God]{.CharOverride-2} backer level to the
[Godbound]{.CharOverride-3} Kickstarter. They have leave to freely share
the full deluxe version PDF with fellow players at their gaming table.
They may also use, edit, and recombine the [Godbound]{.CharOverride-3}
InDesign files to create print and PDF versions of the game for personal
use, and should be considered to have the publisher\'s permission to
have such documents printed for their own use by such establishments as
provide the service.

Adamsmith

Adrienne

Aiden

Andres G Aguirre

Andrew Clark

Andrew Laliberte

Ariel Weis

Arshia Khoshnood

Benton Wilson

Brenden Oakley

Brennan

Brett

Aaron J. Schrader

Carl Woeck

Chris Gunning

Chris Huddleston

Christopher Avery

David Rybacki

DeadlyReed

Donald Welsh

Draczar

Duncan Eshelman

Elmiko

Lyle J. Lee

FelTK

Gavin White

Henry Ulrich

Devon \"All Daggers\" Anderson

Jacob Heid

James V

jamie dobson

Jason Blalock

Jason Leigh

Jason & Andre Martin

Jason Monahoyios

Joe Meyer

Joe Patterson

John Marron

Jon Finn

Jonathan Faulkner

Jonathan Fish

Jonathan Ly Davis

Jonathan Pedro Vega

Jordan \"Sendo\" Hardy

José Luiz F. Cardoso

Josh Reynolds

Joshua Parsons

Kevin Geer

Kickbacker

Len Borowski

Leozilio Ferreira Franca

lspark

Luc Teunen

Magnus Lundgren

Luca Lettieri

Manwell Hung

Mark B

Matthew Pemble

Meciel

Michael Blank

Michael Kennedy

Michael Liesenfeld

Miguel Zapico

Mortaneus

Noah Jay-Bonn

Owen

Patrick Delisle

Patrick Healey

Patrick Ludwig

Peter Baldwin

Peter Bogdasarian

Ray Nolan

Reece Adams

Rhel

Richard Collins

Richard Sebald

Rik Dortmans

Robert Bersch

Robert Lay

Robert Stehwien

Ron Roberts

Rory Clarke Ward

Ryan Timberlake

Sam Wong

Samuel Humphries

Sgetty

Shiny McShine

Sigve Solvaag

Stefano Spanò

Stephen

Steven Dolges

Terateuthis

Thomas

Thomas Busch

Thomas Martin Eifried

Tony Patterson

Trent Bramer

Trevor Hannon

Trublunite

Vicente Cartas

Walt
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer319 .Five-Column-Text-Frame}
[Other Munificent Backers ]{.CharOverride-18}

100Luck

A SPOOKY GHOST

Aaron Berger

Aaron DeChant

Aaron Gottschalk

Aaron Marks

Aaron Nowack

Aaron Pothecary

Aaron Scott

Aaron Seth Schwarz

Aaron Zirkelbach

Adam Boisvert

Adam Buti

Adam Cieszlak

Adam Crossingham

Adam Freitag

Adam Koebel

Adam Matherly

Adam Rajski

Adam Stone

Adem Kougarok Boeckmann

Adjacent Cow

Adrian Stymne

Adrian Yalj

aegof

Aergraith

Ahmed Dhia Alsultan

AinvarG

AJ Carruthers

ajaquysh

Albert Perrien II

Alberto Camargo

alcethenecromancer

Aldona Malkinska

Alex Bainbridge-Robb

Alex Blue

Alex Davey

Alex Erickson

Alex Frey

Alex Lieberman

Alex Mullenix

Alex Stone-Tharp

Alex Swanson

Alex Torres

Alexander Bigg

Alexander Davis

Alexander Gräfe

Alexander Gunn

Alexei McDonald

Alexis

Alfonso Junquera Perez

Alfred Rudzki Hitchcock

Alfredo Amatriain

Allan Bray

Alley Hennigan

Alysson Lago

Analynn

Anders Hallgren

andras furness

andre Ragsdale

Andrea Martinelli

Andreas Monitzer

Andreaz Forsgren

Andrensath

Andrew

Andrew

Andrew Armstrong

Andrew Byers

Andrew D Devenney

Andrew Doucet

Andrew Engstrom

Andrew Ertl

Andrew James

Andrew Mackenzie

Andrew McMahon

Andrew Moreton

Andrew T Powell

Andrew Tressler

Andrew Whitwham

Andrew221

andrewdelorenzo

Andy

Angel

Angelo Pileggi

Anon K. Adderlan

Antero Garcia

Anthony Nomorosa

Anthony Ward

Antoine Fournier

Antonio Ignacio

Antonio Miguel Martorell Ferriol

ArkendFoss

Armin Sykes

Aron Smith

Aroughs

Arthur Braune

Asa Hawblitzel

AsenRG

Ashi

Astor Sigma

Athens Gaming

Atlictoatl

Aureliano Hornos

Aurore

austin.coccia

Auston Schrougham

Autarch

Auwath

B Morris

b1u3frog

Bad Example

Bakshi Mushailov

Barac Baker Wiley

Basileus

BC Parker III

Beachfox

Ben Felten

Benjamin Newman

Benjamin Terry

Benoit Devost

Benoit Perraud

Bernard Clark

Bernd Schmidt

BeZurKur

BiggerBoat

BigGunsNeverTire

Billy O Carter

bilwar

Birthright

Black Kestrel

Blair Monroe

Blake Hutchins

Blakelee Martin

Blarghedy

Blue Tyson

bmarkslash7

Bob Bruce

Bob Minadeo

Bobby Jennings

Brace Plumblee

Brad Johnston

Brad Osborne

Bradley Blucher

braincraft

Brand Robins

Brandon Bright

Brandon Carlstead

Brandon Robertson

Brandon Wolff

Brandt Bjornsen

Brenda Hovdenes

Brendan G. Conway

Brendan O\'Donnell

Brendon Wyber

Brennan Dawson

Brennan O\'Brien

Brent Walters

Bret Gillan

Breton Vander Zouwen

Brett Byers

Brett Ritter

Brett Williams

Brian

Brian Babyok

Brian Foster

Brian Goubeaux

Brian Hodson

Brian Houle

Brian I

Brian M

Bruce Curd

Bruce Hill

Bryan Flowers

Bryan Weber

Bryant Durrell

Bryant Rochon

Bryce Duzan

burttd2010

C P

C.P. Stanford

Caitlin Jane Hughes

Cale

Caleb Proffitt

Caleb Shelley

Calle

Cameron Webb

Candice Bailey

CannonJuice

Cardell Kerr

Carl Congdon

Carter Weinstein

Casey Garske

Casidhe

Cassie Carnage

Cathi Gertz

cdaniel

cglasgow

Chadd Leath

Chance

Chaos Engineer

ChaosClockwork

Charles \"Revlid\" Raspin

Charles A Goulding

Charles Myers

Charles Passmore

Charles Summerhill

Charles Swank

Charlie

Chaz Rosado

Chris

Chris Bekofske

Chris Bernhardi

Chris Caporaso

Chris Chambers

Chris Clary

Chris Collins

Chris Dickson

Chris Galecki

Chris Gardiner

Chris Golden

Chris Harvey

Chris Kalapodis

Chris Lloyd

chris mobberley

Chris Nielsen

Chris Sauro

Chris Slazinski

Chris Tavares

Chris Taylor

Chris Turner

Chris Weisel

Chris Wellings

Chris Whitney

Christian Ankerl

Christian Berland

Christian Carugo

christopher a upshaw

Christopher Aaron Johnson

Christopher Drew Preston

Christopher Haas

Christopher Haslag

Christopher Kallini

Christopher Krueger

Christopher MacDonald

Christopher Maikisch

Christopher McDonough

Christopher Morley

Christopher Mullens

Christopher Parisi

Christopher Ruggles

Christopher Tousignant

Christopher Wiebe

Chuck Thompson

Claude Weaver III

Clay McGrew

Clayton Higbee

Clayton Rennie

Clem Powell

Clete Collum

Clint Cachia

Cody

Colin

Colin Fredericks

Colin Kehm

Colin Urbina

Colin Wilson

ColinJ

Colm O\'Hara

Colton McBryer

Commissar Mums

CommunistPrime

Connor Delint

Contesse

Corbin

Corporev

Cory Russell Miller

CottonCthulhu

Cousin Artaud

CP McInerney

CR

Craig

Craig Bishell

Craig Henson

Craig Mason

Craig Senatore

Craig Wright

Crasius

Cultist of Sooty

Curtis Ellis

Curtis W

Cutter Goode

Czak88

D Morris

Daelon

Daimadoshi_CL

Dain Lybarger

Damon Wilson

Dan Martland

Dan Moran

Dana Myers

Dane Ralston-Bryce

Daniel Beckett

Daniel Crisp

Daniel Duong

Daniel Engström

Daniel Gebel

Daniel Gobin

Daniel Gregory

Daniel Kalwa

Daniel Ketzer

Daniel Kraemer

Daniel Ley

Daniel Lofton

Daniel Maberry

Daniel Markwig

Daniel Maxson

Daniel McCoach

Daniel McSorley

Daniel O\'Brien

Daniel Proença

Daniel Sarder

Daniel Siegmann

Daniel W Lovejoy

Danny Labrecque

Danny Wilson

Darkersun

DarkJedi

Darrel

Darren Loo

DarthThrawn

Dave

Dave K

Dave R

Dave Sherohman

Dave Turner

David

David \'dj\' Coleman

David A. Givens

David A. Nolan

David Andrews

David Bartram

David Bresson

David Campbell

David Comer

David Dalton

David Donohoo

David E Ferrell

David Harrison

David Hubbard

David Jenks

David Johnston

David Jordan

David Kendall

David Klemish

David Last

David Lynch

David Millar

David Millians

David Moreland

David Murphy

David Paul

David Pearson

David Poulton

David Rogers

David Starner

David Sullivan

David Thompson

David Viars

David Westrich

David Yow

Deborah A. Dunlap

Delos Adamski

Demonhunter198

Dengarm

Dennis Eggers

Dennis Salvaty

Derek

Derek Mitchell

Derik Badman

Derrick Cook

Desmond Reed

Devilsjunkshop

Devin Amnott

Devin McIntyre

DGSnyder

Dhillon Singh

Dillon Burke

Dirk Schlobinski

Dirtninja

DivNull Productions

Djvanderlaan

Dmitry Petrov

Dobu

Doctor Razmataz

Dohmy

Dom Hero Ellis

Dominic Zucco

Doug Knowles

Doug Miller

Douglas Molineu

Douglas Turner

Dpa

Drew C. W.

Drew Calderone

Drew Wallace

Dustin Gulledge

Dustin_00

Dylan Boates

Dylan Green

E.T.Smith

Earl Scott Nicholson

Ed Kowalczewski

Ed McW

Edchuk

Edgar Schmidt

Edward Engquist

Edward Langan

Edward Lynch

eggmansizzle

Eirik Oterholm Nielsen

Eis Annavini

Elijah Joyce

Elizabeth Barnfield

Elliott Freeman

Emily Temple

EndOfTheLine

Enoto

Eraman

eremon

Eric

Eric C. Campbell

Eric Casey

Eric Harris

Eric Haste

Eric Hendershott

eric levanduski

Eric Lohmeier

Eric Minton

Erich Schmidt

Erik Dupont

Erik van den Boogaert

Esben Mølgaard

Esteban LaSalle

Ethan Kellaway

Ethan Trovillion

Etienne Olieu

Etienne T.Harvey

Eugenio Ruggiero

Evelyn Nitch-Griffin

Evil Bibu

EvilLego

Ezekiel

Fabien JONCA

Fabio Baccalaro

Fabio Milito Pagliara

Farid Kutyev

Felix Edwards-Black

Fernando Barrocal

ffanxii4ever

Filthy Monkey

Finbar Deane-Stott

Fireside

Flynn Wallace

Forest Ray

Forrest Venable

Foxman

Francis Arachea

Francois Fontaine

Frank

Frank Kergil

Frank McCormick

Frank Romero

Frankie

Frazer Porritt

Fred Furtado

Fred Parham

Frits Kuijlman

Gabriel Bell

Gabriel Lopes Anaya

gaijin_kenshin

Gareth Crees

Garth Dighton

Gary Anastasio

Gary Berg

Gary Furash

Gary London

Gaston Phillips

Gavin Mendeck

Gavin Mutter

Genesys Reeves

Geoff Gillan

Geoff Miller

Geoff Watson

Geoffrey (Jetstream) Walter

Geoffrey Kerslake

George Alexander

George G Hoeflinger

George Kapp

Gerald Rose

Gerard Dalziel

Gerry Saracco

Giovanni Bettineschi

GKelsey

Glen King

Glenn Driver

Glenn Patel

gnapo

Go Miyauchi

Godfather Punk

Gonzalo Dafonte Garcia

Gordon Cranford

gr1059

Grady Victory

Grant Foster

Gregg Parrott

Gregory H Freeman

Gregory Stayner

Grigoriy Nikiforov

gsugu

Guillaume St-Pierre

Guillaume Tirefort

Guillermo Cáceres Reverte

Guillermo Peral Fontova

Gustavo Iglesias

Gustavo La Fontaine

Guy

Guy Reece

H Lincoln

Haiko Rolff

Halvor Grønaas

Harald Eckmüller

Harald Wagener

Harokin

Hauke Stammer

Heart of Skanderbeg

Henry

Henry A Driskill

Henry Murdy

Henry Wild

Herschel Darko

Holger Steiner

HolyBane

Houston Newman

Howard A. Jones

Hubnutzen

Hywel Phillips

Iain Jones

Iain McGregor

Ian

Ian Borchardt

Ian Herbert

Ian Magee

Ian Phillips

Ignacio Rodríguez Chaves

imredave

Infinite Jest

Inkwell Ideas

Inversions

Isaac Carr

Isaac West

Ivan Minyawi

J Michael Lanaghan

J.R. Farley

Jack Gulick

Jack Hubbard and Natascha Wise

Jack Norris

Jackel

Jacob M. T.

Jacob Thompson

Jacqueline Legazcue

Jake Mandel

Jake Marsh

Jake Parker

Jake Steinmann

Jalinth

James

James Byrne

James Corlett

James Dillane

James Dunbier

James Finton

James Heath

James LaRue

James O\'Shea

James Pacheco

James Palmer

James Porter

James Ramirez

James Robertson

James Sears

James Shaw

James Smith

James Stout

James Stuart

James Sutherland

James Taylor

James Vallee

James Weiss

Jamie

Jamie Manley

Jan van der Wielen

Jared Buckley

Jared Cassady

Jared Norman

Jarethellenin

Jarrett Fazio

Jarrod Maistros

Jasin Zujovic

Jason Bean

Jason Childs

Jason Dandy

Jason Duke

Jason Hallford

Jason Jackson

Jason Leisemann

Jason Lescalleet

Jason Pasch

Jason Peake

Jason Weitzel

Jasper Zweers

Javier Koslow

Jay Broda

Jay Marsh

Jay Peters

Jay Steven Anyong

Jean

Jean-Christophe RANNOU

Jean-François Robillard

Jeff

Jeff Brooks

Jeff Scifert

Jeff Zitomer

Jeffrey Meyer

Jeffrey Paris

Jeffrey Russell

Jeffrey Smith

JELEINEN

Jen the Viking

Jennifer Stuart

Jeremy

Jeremy Friesen

Jeremy Frost

Jeremy Levine

Jeremy Puckett

Jeremy Wunders

Jerry Sköld

Jesper Fledelius-Gehrke

Jesse Matonak

Jesse Sauer

Jessica Hammer

Jessica Trantham

Jesus Landgrave

Jim

Jim Jacobson

Jim May

Jim Montgomery

Jim Sharples

jimdepool

Joachim Schulz

Joe D

Joe Tither

Joerg Gering

Joeyjojo

Johannes Paavola

John

John \"johnkzin\" Rudd

John A W Phillips

John Anderson

John Brittain

John Carlson

John D Kennedy

John Doyle

John Fiala

John Griffin

John Hacker

John Harper

John Jenson

John Kurtz

John Lorinskas

John M Campbell

John Michael Hess

John Michael Payne

John Olson

John Pennington

John Perkins

John Roszkowski

John Ryan

John Sadlon

John Simutis

John Snead

John Thomasovich

John TK Veltman

John Wright

John-Carl Kullmann

Johnathan Turner

Johnny McDuff

Johnson Lamb

JoJo Allen

Jon Burton

Jon Goranson

Jon Henrik Knapskog

Jon Razo

Jon Rose Davidson

Jon Walker

Jonas Matser

Jonas Odenhage

Jonathan Chan

Jonathan Moyer

Jonathan Stratton

Jordan

Jordan Lennard

Jordan White

Jordi Rabionet Hernandez

Jörg

Jorge Idarraga Lazaro

Jose

Jose Alarico Teixeira Manzano

José Sánchez

Joseph

Joseph Crawford

Joseph Evans

Joseph Gerard Fredette

Joseph Le May

Joseph Penrod

joseptrd

Josh

Josh Adams

Josh Peters

Josh Rasey

Joshua Cameron

Joshua Haney

Joshua Irish

Joshua James Fasenmyer

Joshua Liebeskind

Joshua M. Pactor

Joshua Ramsey

Joshua Ray

Joshua Smith

Joshua Straub

Journeyman

JR Green

jtc1975

Juan Felipe Calle

Jubei Del Rosario Vinales

Judd

Judd M. Goswick

Julian

Julius Wollfarth Jr

Jürgen Hubert

Jussi Satuaho-Feder

Justin

Justin

Justin Batson

Justin Cranford

Justin Reardon

Justin Simmons

Justin Vander Schaaf

Jye Nicolson

K

K.C. L\'Roy

Kai Tave

Kalman Farago

Kári Gauti Guðlaugsson

Karl Gustafsson

Katie Uebner

Kean Stuart

Keegan Bateman

Keegan Clefisch

Keith

Keith Davies

Keith Johnson

Keith Tarrant

Kellm

Kelly Jolliffe

Ken Bronson

Ken Coble

Ken Pawlik

Kendall Patterson

Kent Miller

Kergonan

Kerry Harrison

Kevin

Kevin Brennan

Kevin Carboni

Kevin Chauncey

Kevin Cleereman

Kevin Dale

Kevin Galloway

Kevin Hoskins

Kevin Middleton

Kevin Parrish

Kevin Smith

Kevin Wine

Khelbiros

Kieran Wallace

killervp

Kim

KingCarnival

Kirby

Kirt Dankmyer

KJ Potter

Konstantinos Papathanasiou

Koray Bilgin

Kovács Róbert Dániel

Kristian Hartmann

Kristopher Volter

Kubec

Kun

Kurt McMahon

Kyle Liming

Kyle Payne

KyoshiroKami

L. Vollum

Lachlan Bakker

Lakshman

Lander Saen

Lars Hess

LastSaneSupervillain

Lauri Hirvonen

Lauri Webb

Lee DeBoer

Leifur A. Haraldsson

lerolabell

Liam Clements

Liam Voyles

Lian

liorean

Lippai.Peter

Lisa Padol

Llewe Gore

Lloyd Rasmussen

Lord of Naught

lowe_margas

Lucas Cooperberg

Luciano Vieira Velho

Lucille Thompson

Ludanto

Luis Guillermo Valdivia Romero

Luismiguel Rodriguez

Lukas Myhan

Łukasz Matylla

Luke

Luke Cunningham

Luke DeVries

Luke Moran

Luke Walker

M

Mads Fallesen Johansen

Magdrion

Maladax

Malbet

Marc Lummis

Marcel Basmer

Marco Goebel

Marcus Burggraf

Mario Cole

Mark Buckley

Mark Delsing

Mark Fenlon

Mark James Goldrick

Mark Jones

Mark Kriozere

Mark Lemmon

Mark MacDougal

Mark Miller

Mark Perry

Mark S

Mark Sable

Mark Stanley

Mark Townshend

Markus Viklund

Marques Haley

Marshall Binns

Marshano Dest

Martin J. Manco

Marty Price

Mastion

Mathew Foreman

Mathew Spaan

Matías Nicolás Caruso

Matt Logan

Matt Pauze

Matt Pruitt

Matt Trent

Matt Wiser

Matthäus Cebulla

Matthew Asztalos

Matthew Barr

Matthew Flamen

Matthew Gagan

Matthew Hensley

Matthew Husar

Matthew Koelling

Matthew Kuhn

Matthew Miles

Matthew Nixon

Matthew Orwig

Matthew Pennington

Matthew Ruane

Matthew Russo

Matthew Shinners

Matthew Skail

Mattias Danielsson

Mauro Adorna

Max Linskey

maximillian wong

MaximumDisplay

Mendel

Metal Fatigue

Michael

Michael Beekman

Michael Bland

Michael Gray

Michael Hawkins

Michael Hengeli

Michael Hicks

Michael Kahan

Michael Kruckvich

Michael Lindsey

Michael Lizardi

Michael Lord

Michael Marcelo

Michael Mears

Michael Pineda

Michael Prather

Michael Pruitt

Michael Pureka

Michael Ramsey

Michael Reed

Michael Santhaseelan

Michael Sauer

Michael Stevens

Michael Thompson

Michael Titchen

Michael Tree

Michael W. Mattei

Micheal

Micheal McErlean

Michel Dismer

Mikael Hansson

Mikael Tysvær

Mike \"Laz\" MacMartin

Mike Davey

Mike Davis

Mike Healey

Mike Sarlo

Mike Schulz

Mike Teuscher

Mike Williams

Mikloshe

Miles Boucher

Miles Nerini

Mitch Albala

Morgan Gilbert

Moritz Boehm

Mourterou Thibault

Moxiane

Mr. Path

MtFierce

Nancy Feldman

Nat Webb

natb

Nate Feyma

Nathan Birch

Nathan Black

Nathan Easton

Nathan Ellsworth

Nathan Joy

Nathan Light

Nathan Marigoni

Nathan Schmitz

Nathan Trail

Nathaniel Kosslyn

Nathaniel Southworth-Barlow

Ndege Diamond

Neal Dalton

Neall Raemonn Price

NecroNuke9

Neil Lindgren

Neil Lovell

Neil Mahoney

nerdwerds

Nerik

Nessalantha

Newt Newport

Newton Grant

Nezumi

Ng Wai Chung

Niall

Nicholas A. Tan

Nicholas Arroyo

Nicholas Cadigan

Nicholas Cassidy

Nicholas Fowler

Nicholas G. Rais

Nicholas Goehring

Nicholas Lee Goodman

Nicholas Shephard

Nicholas Stylianou

Nicholas Zakhar

Nick

Nick Bower

Nick Herhilan

Nick Longfritz

Nick O\'Connell

Nick S.

NickyB

Nicolas Brian

Nigel Phillips

Nigel Ray

Niguel Vega

Nihar Nilekani

Nisa Ventress

Odin Collins

OEL

Oh Seung Han

Oisin O\'Higgins Benton

Old Man River

oldstevo

Oliver Korpilla

Oliver Peltier

Oliver Reilly

Olivier Chevallon

Omar Amador

Omari Brooks

Omnimental

Ondrej Böhm

Oriol Girbén Fariñas

Orion Cooper

Oscar Ballesteros Fraga

Owlglass

P-A Beaulieu

Pablo Pérez Gómez

Pak Mhojadee

PandaDad

Pariah77

Parrish Warren

Pascal Oliet

Patrice Hédé

Patrice Mermoud

Patrick Corneliess

Patrick Emery

Patrick Fagan

Patrick Henson

Patrick Hilligoss

Patrick Holloway

Patrick Jascot

Patrick SAYET

paul

Paul Courtenay

Paul Gunther

Paul Hayes

Päul Hendersøn

Paul Jenkinson

Paul Messenger

Paul Mitchell

Paul Mitchener

Paul Morgan

Paul Townsend

Paul Watson

Paula Tiemi Hashizume

pdcurry

Pedion Modular Battlefields

Pedro Gómez-Esteban

PeskyNeedler

Peter

Peter Engebos

Peter Gates

Peter Hancock

Peter Mabbott

Peter Olfelt

Petri Virtanen

Phil Hartwich

Philip Barclay-Monteith

Philip Hudson

Philip Plumridge

Philip Rogers

Philip Stein

Philip Wilder

Philippe Jofresa

Philippe Marcil

Philippe Saner

Phillip McGregor

Phillip Stephen Wright

Phillip Tucker

PhoenixFTW

Pieter

Pisces15

Pixel_Kitty

Pookie Uk

Powhatan Belton

Psybernary

Pyke van Zon

pymtastic

QuarianRex

Quek Xiongwei

Quentin Vasseur

R. Bohus

Rachel Closson

Rahshaad Benjamin

Raleigh Grigsby

Ralf Northman

Rand Brittain

Randall Orndorff

Ray Chapel

Ray Macey

Raymond Bennett

Raymond Weidner

RB

rchaddick

Rebecca Lee

Reid

René John Kerkdyk

RexDart

Rich Spainhour

Richard

Richard \'Vecna\' Hussey

Richard Brooks

Richard Clayton

Richard Do

Richard Forest

Richard Gant

Richard Harrison

Richard Hughes

Richard Iorio II

Richard Javier Stephenson

Richard Jones

Richard Mundy

Richard Ruane

Richard Sorden

Richard Swanson

Richard Woolcock

Rick Hull

Rick Wilson

Rift

Rihards

Rik Geuze

Riklurt

Rise Up Design

Rob Brennan

Rob Donoghue

Rob McCall

Rob Nadeau

Robert Basamania-Eeten

Robert Conley

Robert Day

Robert Lionheart

Robert Scruggs

Robert Sellers Smith

Robert Viers

Roberto Micheri

Rod Chanas

Rodrigo García Carmona

Roger

Roger Brasslett

Roger Robar

Roland Ayliffe

Ron

Ron Beck

Ron Wilhelm

Ronald Whitehead

Rose Bailey

Ross Smith

Rowell

Royne Borrud

Ruemere

Rukesh Patel

Russell Hoyle

Russell Owens

rvn1972

Ryan Crowe

Ryan DeBoer

Ryan Fisk

Ryan Ford

Ryan Kent

Ryan Nunes

Ryan Oldford

Ryan Patterson

Ryan W. Roberts

Ryan Weldon

Sally Brewer

Salvador Jimenez Delgado

Sam

Sam Hawken

Sam Hinshaw

Samuel Clark

Samuel Doepken

Samuel Farro

Samuel H. Smith

Samuel Puddleduck

Samuel Thorne

Samuel White

Sara Mraz

Saturnus

Savage Robby

Scot MacNaughton

Scott

Scott Gomoll

Scott Hill

Scott Jenks

Scott Maguire

Scott Malcolm

Scott Maynard

Scott Nielsen

Scott Smith

Scott Udall

seadaily

Sean

Sean McCoy

Sean Mercado

Sean Michael Tubridy

Sean Rivera

Sean Trader

Seann Ives

Sebastian

Sebastian Zivota

SeeleyOne

semiomant

Sergio McCook

Sergio Silvio Herrera Gea

Serina Shepard

Seth A Spurlock

Seth Herd

Shadowriku

Shane Dunlap

Shane Gilbert

Shane Wheeler

Shawn C Campbell

Shawn Meyer

Shawn P

Shawn Wise

Shelton Windham

Shinya HANATAKA

Silver Ladder

Simon Brunning

Simon Early

Simon English

Simon Geard

Simon Kunz

Simon Plain

Simon Taylor

Sion Gibson

sionathan

Skrymir

Skylar Sokol

Skytherin

smeglord1

SnakeDr

Snowman0147

Sophia Brandt

Sören

Soup

Sovem

Sqn Cdr Flashheart

Stacie Winters

Stacy Forsythe

Steel Thul

Stefan Lahr

Stefan Warick

Stefano Monachesi

Stephan Corniuk

Stephen Denison

Stephen Gawrit

Stephen Henderson-Grady

Stephen Lewis

Steve Dodge

Steve Ellis

Steve Shearer

Steven Bakker

Steven Cornell

Steven Kenobi

Steven Thesken

Steven Warble

Steven Ward

Stew Wilson

Stormraider

Stormseeker

Stras Acimovic

Svend Andersen

taichara

Taiga Brenerman

Tan Mau Wu

Tanner Yea

Tasha

TBush

TechnocratJT

Ted

Ted Johansson

Ted Williams

Tehjo

Teo Chang Hao

Teorius

terrasaur

Terry Gilbert

Thaddeus Ryker

Thalji

Tharek

the Jake

The Rangdo of Arg

The Rosenthal Family

thekingtiger8

Theodore Miller

Theophenes

Therios Fon Fabre

Theron Bretz

TheUnknown

Thomas

Thomas Anastasio

Thomas Graham

Thomas Green

Thomas Hume

Thomas Kinsey

Thomas Lindgren

Thomas McDonald

Thomas Miller

Thomas P. Kurilla

Thomas Scheevel

Thomas Scroggs

Thomas Sniadecki

Thomas Vanstraelen

Thomas Walters

Thor

Thoth

Thozmp Corris

Tiff

Tiffany Korta

Tim Baker

Tim Cosing

Tim Czarnecki

Tim Fisher

Tim Jensen

Tim Miles

Tim Partridge

Tim Waeyaert

Timothy Casassa

Timothy Groth

Timothy Ollmann

Tobias Dahlberg

Todd

Tom

Tom Bolenbaugh

Tom Hudson

Tom Pleasant

Tomahawked

Tony Strongman

Topi Makkonen

Torsten Bernhardt

Travis Baker

Travis Sareault

Travis Stout

Trenton Vartabedian

trespassers

Trevor Bailey

Trevor McDonald

Trevor Turner

Trey Beattie

Trip the Space Parasite

Tristan Zorak Sanders

Troels Pedersen

Trygve Lie

Tulpa

Tun Kai Poh

Turner Baker

Ty

Ty Elrod

Tyler

Tyler Hunt

Tyler S. Greer

Tyler Schuster

Tzu

Ubiratan Pires Alberton

Unfies

Valtteri Rantamäki

Vasco A. Brown

VegaSera

Veiltender

Victor Grinevskii

Vidal Bairos

Vince Kwiatek

Vincent Kindfuller

Vincent Newkirk

Vindexus

Von Redrikk Allenegui

Vony256

W. Andrew Robinson

Wade Jones

wadledo

Wajanai Snidvongs

Walter Stevens

WarDragon

Warr Byrd

Wayne

Wayne Grelle

Weimann

Wes Frazier

Wes Sanford

whyktor

Widdershins

Wilhelm Fitzpatrick

Will Batson

Will Bryant

william

William Ashley

William David Pattison

William Hensley

William Hochella

William King

William M Wilson

William Oliver

William Ross

Wiwuno

wolfrngr

Wright Johnson

WuseMajor

Wyldstar

xander

Xavier Daragon

Xelkelvos

Xlr8er365

Y. K. Lee

Yann Abaziou

Yann Raoul

Yazracor

Yuval Starkman

Zachary Kline

Zachary Pilarski

Zack

Zak Strassberg

Zakk

Zelbinnean

Ziliuse

Zynwin

zzyzazazz

[너불레기]{.CharOverride-19}
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer320 .Text-Frame}
Topic Index

A

Academy of Thought, The
[53](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker300)

Actions

Combatants With Multiple Actions
[19](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker013)

Instant
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker003),
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker022)

On Turn
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker005),
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker020)

Advancement and Rewards
[98](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker330)

Ancalia
[70](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker310)

Angels
[140](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker340)

Arcem
[69](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker309)

Arrayed, The
[219](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker378)

Attribute Checks
[15](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker001)

Autocrats
[221](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker381)

B

Bleak Reach
[72](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker312)

Bright Republic
[73](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker313)

C

Celestial Engines
[177](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker354)

Celestial Shards
[177](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker355)

Changing the World
[121](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker326)

Cinnabar Order, The
[54](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker301)

Combat
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker002)

Companions
[22](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker026)

Conquerors
[221](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker382)

Constant gifts
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker019)

Creating Mortal Heroes
[180](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker359)

Cults, Godbound
[128](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker337)

Curse-Eaters
[54](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker302)

Cybernetics and Clockworks
[188](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker362)

D

Damage

Damage rolls
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker007)

Mobs and Area Effects
[147](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker345)

Straight
[22](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker027)

Dispelling
[22](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker029)

Divine Supremacy
[192](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker364)

Dominion
[121](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker328)

As reward
[98](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker332)

From cults
[128](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker336)

Dulimbai, Regency of
[81](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker321)

E

Effort
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker015)

Committing
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker016)

Eldritch
[142](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker341)

Elemental Scions
[220](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker379)

Empty Way, The
[55](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker303)

Exemplars
[221](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker380)

Experience Points
[98](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker331)

F

Factions
[129](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker338)

Falling damage
[211](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker373)

Far Realms
[74](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker314)

Fray Dice
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker008)

G

Gifts
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker018)

Godwalkers
[194](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker365)

H

Healing

Mortals
[186](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker360)

Old-School Healing Spells
[187](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker361)

With magic or gifts
[56](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker308)

With rest
[18](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker012)

Hedge Magic
[55](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker304)

Howlers
[75](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker315)

I

Influence
[121](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker327)

Withdrawing
[122](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker335)

Instant actions
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker004),
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker023)

Integration points
[188](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker363)

K

Kasirutan Archipelago
[76](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker316)

L

Lesser Foes
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker009),
[22](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker024).
[See also]{.Index-Cross-reference ._idGenCharOverride-1} Worthy Foes

Lom, Atheocracy of
[71](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker311)

Low Magic
[52](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker298)

M

Made Gods
[143](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker342)

Martial Strifes
[204](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker366)

Mediators
[221](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker383)

Merciful Hand, The
[56](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker305)

Miracles
[22](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker028)

What They Can Do
[23](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker036)

Misbegotten
[144](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker343)

Mobs
[146](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker344)

Morale
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker011)

Mortal Foes
[148](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker346)

N

Nezdohva
[77](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker317)

O

Oasis States
[78](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker318)

On Turn actions
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker006),
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker021)

P

Paradises
[214](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker376)

Parasite Gods
[150](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker347)

Patrian Empire
[79](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker319)

Powerful supernatural foes
[137](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker339)

Proteans
[222](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker387)

R

Raktine Confederacy
[80](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker320)

Rebels
[221](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker384)

Relicts
[152](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker348)

S

Sages
[221](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker385)

Saving Throws
[15](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker014)

Scene
[21](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker017)

Seers of the Bright Eye
[56](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker306)

Shapeshifters
[154](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker349)

Skill Words
[226](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker411)

Smite Action
[25](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker039)

Spirits
[155](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker350)

Strife

of the Bitter Rival
[206](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker367)

of the Broken Earth
[207](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker368)

of the Consuming Flame
[208](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker369)

of the Drowning Tide
[209](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker370)

of the Dying Hour
[210](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker371)

of the Falling Sky
[211](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker372)

of the Hunting Beast
[212](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker374)

of the Scorned Lover
[213](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker375)

Summoned Entities
[156](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker351)

T

Themed Godbound
[216](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker377)

Theotechnicians
[57](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker307)

Theurgy
[58](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker299)

Thousand Gods
[82](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker322)

Toba Plains
[83](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker323)

Traps
[111](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker334)

U

Ulstang Skerries
[84](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker324)

Uncreated
[158](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker352)

Undead
[159](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker353)

Undestined
[224](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker399)

Unseen
[221](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker386)

V

Vissio
[85](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker325)

W

Wards
[178](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker356)

Empyrean
[178](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker358)

Mundus
[125](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker329),
[178](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker357)

Wealth
[11](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker000)

As reward
[98](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker333)

Words

Alacrity
[26](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker040)

Apotheosis
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker048)

Artifice
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker057)

Beasts
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker067)

Bow
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker077)

Command
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker087)

Creating New Words
[24](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker037)

Death
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker097)

Deception
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker107)

Earth
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker117)

Endurance
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker127)

Fate
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker400)

Fertility
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker137)

Fire
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker147)

Health
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker157)

Journeying
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker167)

Knowledge
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker177)

Luck
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker187)

Might
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker197)

Night
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker207)

Passion
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker217)

Sea
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker227)

Shapeshifting
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker388)

Skill Words
[226](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker410)

Sky
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker237)

Sorcery
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker247)

Sun
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker258)

Sword
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker268)

Time
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker278)

Wealth
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker288)

Words of Creation
[25](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker030)

Creating New Words
[24](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker038)

Worthy Foes
[17](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker010),
[22](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker025).
[See also]{.Index-Cross-reference ._idGenCharOverride-1} Lesser Foes
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer321 ._idGenObjectStyleOverride-1}
[]{#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idTextAnchor215}Gift
Index
:::

::: {#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idContainer322 .Text-Frame}
Adept of the Gate
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker248)

Adept of the Throne
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker255)

Adept of the Way
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker256)

All Directions as One
[26](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker041)

All-Encompassing Presence
[26](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker047)

Amaranth Vitality
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker128)

Attend the Faithful
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker055)

Banner of Passion
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker218)

Bar the Red Descent
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker078)

Bearer of the Scarlet Crown
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker094)

Best Course, The
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker178)

Best-Laid Plans, The
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker179)

Birth Blessing
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker138)

Blighted Luck
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker188)

Body of Burning Light
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker259)

Body of Iron Will
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker129)

Body of Water
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker228)

Bolt of Invincible Skill
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker079)

Boreal Spike
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker244)

Builder of Mountain Peaks
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker124)

Burning Rebuke
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker154)

Burning Vitality
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker164)

By Chance
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker194)

Cinder Words
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker155)

Claws That Catch, The
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker394)

Clouds Below, The
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker238)

Cold, Still Shape, A
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker395)

Command the Wheels
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker059)

Conquer the Beast Within
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker074)

Consume the Name
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker407)

Consuming Gaze
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker148)

Contempt of Distance
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker269)

Conviction of Error
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker114)

Cornucopian Blessing
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker144)

Corona of Fury
[25](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker032)

Craft to Make, The
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker289)

Creation's First Light
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker265)

Crushing Depths
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker229)

Cut the Consequence
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker401)

Cutting the Crimson Road
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker275)

Damn Their Eyes
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker208)

Darkling Stairs, The
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker209)

Darkness at Noon, A
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker214)

Deceitful Faces
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker396)

Deceiver's Unblinking Eye
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker108)

Defy the Iron
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker130)

Deplete Health
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker165)

Descent of the Mountain
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker198)

Disclose the Flaw
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker184)

Distant Howl
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker068)

Divine Wrath
[25](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker031)

Drawing Out the Line
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker402)

Dust At Your Heels
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker168)

Earthwalker
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker118)

Echoes of the Past
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker279)

Effort of the Word
[25](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker033)

Elemental Scorn
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker131)

Ender of Plagues
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker158)

Ever-Sufficient Provenance
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker290)

Excellence of the Word
[25](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker035)

Excellent Pause, The
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker249)

Excision of Understanding
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker180)

Exodus Road, The
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker174)

Eyes Above
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker239)

Eyes of the Cat
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker069)

Fade Into Fate
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker408)

Fair Mortal Mien
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker389)

Falling Meteor Strike
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker199)

Familiar Face, A
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker109)

Fashioning a Friend
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker219)

Faultless Repair
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker058)

Fear No Steel
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker134)

Feathered Tempest
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker080)

Firestorm
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker149)

Firewalker
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker150)

Fists of Black Iron
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker200)

Flawless Reproduction
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker291)

Flesh Made True
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker159)

Flesh of Shadows
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker215)

Flickering Advance
[26](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker042)

Follow the Threads
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker220)

Forever Sufficient
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker295)

Forging of Sinew and Bone
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker397)

Fury of the Avalanche
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker125)

Fury of the Heavens
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker245)

Give Forth the Ashes
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker151)

Golden God\'s Hand, The
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker296)

Greater Pavis of Rule
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker250)

Greatness Within, The
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker398)

Guards! Seize him!
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker088)

Hammerhand
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker060)

Hand on the Balance, A
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker285)

Harder than This
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker132)

Hasten to the Light
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker260)

Hear Prayer
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker052)

Heart like Clay, A
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker224)

Heart of the Lion
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker221)

Hope of the Dawn
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker261)

Hour of Need, The
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker175)

Illumine That Which Is
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker262)

Immediate Foresight
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker280)

Impenetrable Deceit
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker115)

Impossible Victory
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker195)

Inexorable Shaft, The
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker084)

Infectious Passion
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker225)

Influence of the Word
[25](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker034)

Intrinsic Health
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker160)

Invincible Iron General
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker095)

Irresistible Query
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker185)

Jewel-Bright Eyes
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker119)

Keeper of the Graves
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker098)

Knack of the Borrowed Shape
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker390)

Knives of Night
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker210)

Know the Inner Truth
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker089)

Know the Path
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker169)

Leap the Moon
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker204)

Liar's Flawless Grace
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker110)

Lick Your Wounds
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker391)

Lieutenant\'s Wisdom,The
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker090)

Lifegiver
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker166)

Lines of Rule, The
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker091)

Link of Unity
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker070)

Living Torrent
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker230)

Look Forward
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker281)

Loosening God\'s Teeth
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker205)

Lord of That Which Falls
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker085)

Lord of the Waters
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker231)

Lord of the Wild
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker075)

Maker's Eyes, The
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker064)

Mantle of Quietus
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker099)

Many-Skinned Mantle
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker076)

Mark of the Prophet
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker054)

Mark the Maker
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker061)

Master of the Furnace
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker152)

Master of the Key
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker170)

Merciful Gaze
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker161)

Mist on Water
[26](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker043)

Mountain Thews
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker120)

Nimbus of Flame
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker153)

Nine Iron Walls
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker270)

Nine Lives
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker189)

None Beyond Reach
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker081)

No Release
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker104)

Obduracy of Stone
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker121)

Omnipresent Reach
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker082)

Omniscient Scholar, The
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker186)

Opening the Way
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker171)

Pale Crown Beckons, A
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker100)

Path of Racing Dawn, The
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker176)

Path Through War, The
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker276)

Perceive the Petitioner
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker053)

Perfection of Understanding
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker251)

Perfect Masquerade
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker111)

Perpetual Perfection
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker065)

Persistence of Being
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker403)

Plaguebringer
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker162)

Plasmic Body
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker392)

Prophetic Insight
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker282)

Prosperity\'s Abundance
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker292)

Purging Noonday Blaze
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker266)

Purity of Brilliant Law
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker263)

Rain of Lightning
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker240)

Rain of Sorrow
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker086)

Read the Signs
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker404)

Reaping Word
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker105)

Rebellion of the Soil
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker122)

Receive the Incense of Faith
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker049)

Red in Tooth and Claw
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker071)

Reflex of Regret
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker283)

Reverence of Steel
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker066)

Revise Destiny
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker409)

Reweave Time
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker287)

River Tamer
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker234)

Road of Shadows, A
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker211)

Ruler of the Lesser Paths
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker257)

Salting Away the Luck
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker190)

Salt-Spray Purity
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker235)

Sanctify Shrine
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker050)

Sapphire Wings
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker241)

Scent the Prey
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker072)

Scythe Hand
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker101)

Searing Blade
[37](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker156)

Second Spring, A
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker139)

Secrets of the Deep
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker232)

Seeds of Death
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker140)

Seeking Flight, The
[30](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker083)

Sense of Ash, A
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker141)

Sever the Line
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker145)

Shadow Play
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker112)

Shattering Hand
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker277)

Shoulders Wide as the World
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker201)

Smite the Apostate
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker051)

Snuff the Heart\'s Candle
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker222)

Soldier\'s Faithful Heart, The
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker092)

Someone Else\'s Name
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker405)

Song Buried Deep, A
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker226)

Speaker in Dreams, A
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker216)

Spun Fortune
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker191)

Steel Without End
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker271)

Still Silence of Sleep, The
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker212)

Stonespeaker
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker123)

Storm Breaks, The
[26](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker044)

Stormsword
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker242)

Strike the Fetters
[225](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker406)

Stronger Than You
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker202)

Subtle Eye of Knowing, The
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker252)

Summons to Day
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker106)

Sundered Moment
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker286)

Sunlit Sight
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker264)

Sunstrike
[48](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker267)

Surge of Strength
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker203)

Sustain the Multitude
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker293)

Swifter Than The Sun
[26](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker045)

Swift Progress
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker172)

Ten Thousand Skins
[223](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker393)

Ten Thousand Tools
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker062)

Terrifying Mien
[44](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker223)

Thews of the Gods
[42](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker206)

Thieves' Bane
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker297)

Thirsting Razor
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker272)

Thousand Loyal Troops, A
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker093)

Thrall-Making Shout
[31](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker096)

Through A Red Forest
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker273)

To Bless the Nations
[27](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker056)

Touch of Green Restraint
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker142)

Transmuter
[28](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker063)

Tremors of the World's Heart
[34](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker126)

Truth That Burns, A
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker181)

Tsunami Hand
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker236)

Unbreakable
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker135)

Undying
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker136)

Unending Abundance
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker146)

Unerring Blade
[49](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker274)

Unfailing Fortune
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker196)

Unmarred Beneficence
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker192)

Untamed Will
[29](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker073)

Untiring Inspiration
[35](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker133)

Untroubled Passage
[39](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker173)

Unveiled Truth, The
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker182)

Veiled Step
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker113)

Vital Furnace
[38](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker163)

Voice of the Winds
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker246)

Walk Between the Rain
[26](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker046)

Walking Ghost
[33](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker116)

Walking With the Tide
[45](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker233)

Welcoming the Dusk
[43](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker213)

White Bone Harvest
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker102)

Will that Burns, The
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker253)

Windsinger
[46](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker243)

Withering Curse
[36](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker143)

Withering Hour
[50](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker284)

Wither the Purse
[51](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker294)

Withholding the Mercy
[32](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker103)

Wizard's Wrath
[47](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker254)

Word Far Off, A
[40](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker183)

World Against You, The
[41](#Godbound_DeluxeVersion-EpubBlank-062516.xhtml#_idIndexMarker193)
:::
